My third job in a retail heck-scapehttps://www.youtube.com/watch?v=apkBi4ewqq0[thought slime]:Hello, it's me the incredible thinking soup. I've had many shitty jobs throughout the years and sometimes I like to make videos about them and this is one of those videos. If you've been following this small series, you'll remember that I worked for a Canadian coffee chain called Tim Hortons. I also worked at a pizza hut in a gas station that later was no longer a pizza hut in a gas station. My third job was a little different. It was far less shitty. Not like not shitty, just less shitty and that was all I needed at the time. So much so in fact that I stayed there for four years, I worked the return counter at a store called winners, which is virtually identical to TJ Maxx in the States or Primark in the U K.I think they're all owned by the same company. I don't know why they change name in these different countries. They're not exactly branding experts. The slogan for winners was you should go. [Winners add]:Designers can't live without them, but you can get them for a lot less.The winners designing event.You should go.[Thought slime]:Really, really stayed up all night burning the candle at both ends on that one huh fellas, you know, according the market research, people spend more money if they go to the store, we should just tell them go to the store. So the way this kind of shop works is that they buy surplus merchandise that other stores would have thrown away and sell it at a discount. You'd end up being able to buy real brand name clothes at a much lower price than you'd pay at that brand names actual store. If you're thinking Wow, sounds like a good deal, it's worth pointing out that this shows that clothes are priced kind of arbitrarily according to the most these brands will expect you to pay. Think about that for a second you end up paying more than the things you're buying are actually worth. Like you buy an American Eagle shirt, it's eighty dollars. Would it cost you thirty dollars in winters and it costs probably, I don't know twenty cents to make because they built it with child labor.That's just supply and demand baby. You pay a huge tax on everything that you buy. And that just goes into the pockets of some shareholder for doing literally nothing, they could still make a profit off of selling it for less, they just jack up the price because they know they can. And that's just how it's always gonna work forever. Shopping at winners is a weird experience. It's this big open floor with tons and tons of shit like thousands of items, as far as the eye can see divided loosely into departments. There's no fixed inventory, there's no catalog, you just end up with whatever you get shipped that day. And it's always changing, so people come in literally every day to see the new stuff. And there's always new stuff. So you never quite get a sense of what anything costs. And you can't just scan the barcode because the barcode was designed for some other store. The long and short of this is that you end up with merchandise being strewn about in all directions, everywhere you can imagine.People just grab stuff off the rack, try it on and if they don't want it, they just throw it over the rack rather than walk to the changing room. That would cost them valuable shopping minutes, where they could potentially find a huge surprise deal before anyone else. It's hard to convey the urgency with which people shopped at this store. It got even worse at some points like when final clearance season came around. Winners merchandise will be marked down every so often, but eventually, once something had been marked down to two or three times that it reached its final price, you know, so that they could clear it out. That was final clearance, what you might just call clearance anywhere else. Anyway, there were periods right before inventory counts where huge sections of the store reached their final price. This was a nightmare for every employee. Most of the merchandise, clothes, food, toys, all of it would end up on the floor, most of it would get trampled, and who knows where anything was supposed to go.When the shop closed each night, which meant after each customer who entered even one minute before closing time had finished shopping so who knows when that would be.You'd have to put it all back before you could go home.And who the hell knows how long that's gonna takeHope you didn't need a ride because they might be waiting outside for a while.Hope you didn't have plans.Hope you weren't opening the store the next day because you could randomly end up with an extra hour or so added to your shifts sometimes. But if you clock in even a minute late,you're going to hear about it. So my job was to work the return counter and folks, that was an experience. Everything at the store was so cheap that most people would just buy tons and tons of stuff way more than they intended to keep, and just return whatever they didn't want later.You only had a month to return it for money but there was no limit on how long you had to return something for store credit. You just needed the receipt and price tags, which means if someone didn't have either of those things, I wasn't supposed to return the item. But inevitably, whoever was returning it would just complain to the manager and get what they wanted. That's just how the job worked. Essentially, my job was to waste everybody's time by pretending to enforce the rules of the return counter until it made someone annoyed enough to complain, in which case the rules were just thrown out by the manager. Now, I couldn't just not follow the rules, because they routinely had secret shoppers monitoring your performance. But I also didn't have the authority to change the rules if someone got upset, that makes me the bad guy in every interaction.And the manager who you'd have to call over the intercom would come over and make you look like a complete asshole and they'd be mad at you for it happening, because they're like, why are you pissing off this customer? I'm doing it because it's th because it's what you made me do. I'll get in trouble if I don't. Three things were not returnable clothes that had been laundered, shoes that had been worn, or underwear of any kind. In the first two cases, it became your job to inspect each item for wear and tear. If you accepted merchandise that was not resellable among the thousands of returns you did that day, you would be reprimanded .If you accepted a return for the wrong price because your manager overrode the rules and made your return something you weren't supposed to and you couldn't match it to any of the thousands ofitems of merchandise in the store, you'd be reprimanded. By the way, each individual item had its own sku, and you needed to manually enter each sku when returning or writing off an item of merchandise. And sometimes someone would return something several years old and there'd be no way to know the sku how much it cost when it was bought, or how much it was supposed to cost now or whether or not it should even be an active inventory. And all of that was your problem. On top of that you were also the only dedicated cashier meaning among other duties, you were the only employee expected to serve customers at all times.If the line got too long which according to their rules was three people you'd page one of the other employees the cash registers and boy howdy they didn't like that nobody liked that telling people Hey, come over here and do some extra work I top of your work. If your little rack where you put returns merchandise got too full you'd have to call the relevant departments employee take their items, and they resented that too. Why are you making me take these items I got shit I got to do in my department. Most of your job was either dealing with customers and pissing them off, or making more work for other employees, sometimes including your bosses over the intercom.You can imagine that this became pretty alienating. You spend all day pissing everybody off no matter what you do.You'd also deal with a lot of theft, like a lot.People would just yank stuff and come back the next day to return it for store credit. Most of the people doing this seem to have some sort of drug dependency. And if your manager saw them, they'd make a big stink and escalate the situation, putting you and everyone around you in danger. If the manager saw somebody they suspected of shoplifting, they'd send an employee around to tail them just to make them feel less comfortable. Often they’d lash out and threaten the employee tasked with this. I remember once a guy took out his wallet and flip through the money inside screaming that he had too much money to steal anything which, like, okay, I kind of get it, it is insulting to have someone follow you around, but on the other hand, he did then proceed to run out of the store with a bunch of merchandise, so likeFair dudes. Now I don't have a real big problem with shoplifting quite frankly, who gives a shit, this store would lose hundreds of pieces of merchandise just to people stomping on it, shoplifting was not a big deal. I do take issue, however, with the stores management making us put our safety on the line to defend their merchandise. Maybe it's just me, but I think my well being is worth more than a twenty nine ninety nine M S R P Calvin Klein leather belt or two. I remember once a woman came in quite upset that her car had been broken into and all the Christmas gift she'd bought for her kids had been stolen. She gave us the receipt and told us to look out for the guy that did it, and that guy came in later and return all of the gifts and he got the money. And that didn't feel good. Look, man, do what you got to do to survive but being made an accessory to a child's Christmas presents being taken away, that doesn't put you in the Christmas spirit. Let me tell you, you know what else didn't put me in the Christmas spirit. How wild the store guy during Christmas. I remember For one night, not a single pair of shoes remained intact on the shelf. At least one out of every pair was on the floor, not a single pair of shoes remained! Which meant you not only had to restock the whole thing before you could go home, but you also had to find the lost twin of each set before you could even put them away. And the Christmas music.Good God, the Christmas music.From November first, if you were lucky, to January fifth, endless Christmas music.If you like or encourage stores to play Christmas music and I consider myself a compassionate person and I try not to get angry but rotten hell you ghoul.Rot die right now in rotten hell, that's what you deserve. In my opinion, but you know whats worse than Christmas. Boxing Day. Americans, Boxing Day is a Canadian holiday observed on December twenty sixth, where you're supposed to return Christmas gifts that you didn't want. If that sounds crass and commercialist, Yeah. The amount of returns we would process on Boxing Day was staggering. Each cash register was turned into a literal conveyor belt, and the entire staff would take shopping carts and ferry merchandise from the registers back to the relevant departments. Since these were all gifts, ain't nobody had receipts or price tags, and one in ten people would chew you out for the store not printing gift receipts, even though we definitely did and were ordered to offer it to each and every customer for the two months leading up to Christmas. So not only did you have to find a price match, but you also had to print and attach new price tags, which means you have to find the following information. The items department number out of about fifty or so the items sku, the items category number out of literally thousands all printed in a big binder, the items original price and the items current price, all while you're still serving customers and sorting merchandise, and everyone in the store is pissed off and wants to go back home to their families because it's the day after Christmas. And handling stuff that people returned was always a crapshoot.And I don't Because it's a gamble, I mean that occasionally crap shoots out at you.Because people shit in a surprising amount of things that they then try to return to the store, pooping in bed sheets and then folding them back up and returning them. Your problem now. Or pants with skid marks or underwear with skid marks, ha I bet you think you kind of continuity air there, we're not supposed to return underwear, but the thing is anyone who wanted to would just talk to the manager and then the manager would let them and then we had to just write it off. So.It it's just another rule that that they made us enforce for no reason. And that's on top of the normal retail poop of cleaning the bathrooms where people just leave shit on the walls and just generally around. Also people just shitting on the floor of the store, like that's the thing that people would just do. I don't know why. Maybe it's just accident. I don't want to dwell on it.I just think it's important that we all recognize that retail workers deal with a lot of literal shit in addition to the figurative shit that we expect them to deal with. I worked this job for four years, and by the end of it, I was still making minimum wage, nobody made more than minimum wage. And if they did, it was by an insignificant, ten cent bullshit that didn't make a dent in your bills. The minimum amount that if they paid me one cent less, it would be a crime. That's the message you should take away from this. Your bosses will take as much from you as they can. Just like the arbitrary prices you pay.You're going to be squeezed in all directions until you give them more and more and get by with less and less. That is the inevitable trajectory of the working class under capitalism, an endless squeeze that whittles away your quality of life and finds new ways to exploit you to steal from you to reward you less and less. It finds ways to cheat you, to sell you less for more money, and then when you have nothing left in issues, you more credit to put you in deeper and deeper debt that you have to work harder and harder to get out of. If you work retail, you know it's impossible. You're not paid enough to survive, let alone save for the future. Not because the work isn't difficult. We all know that the work is difficult.But because the biggest assholes in the universe treat having to work a minimum wage job as the punishment that you should face for not being able to find a better one.Thank you for watching my video about a shitty job that I had one time, please press the like button and also subscribe to me here for new videos every Friday at  twelve p m Eastern Standard Time. If you'd like to see some more videos from me, I've also got a second channel where I discuss horror movies called Scaredy cats at youtube dot com slash scaredy cats TV there I release a new video every Tuesday at twelve p m Eastern Standard Time. I've also recently started a third channel where I do let's plays, You can find that at YouTube dot com slash mega slime entertainment zone. My goal is to have a new video up there every single day It's seven a m Eastern Standard Time. I also do weekly live streams at eight p m Eastern Standard Time, here and on Twitch so if you'd like to be notified when I go live, why don't you hit that bell? Hey, also Joey got a Patreon that's where people go to give me money, It's a great resource for me to get money from people. That's it patreon dot com slash thought slime. Hey, I'm sorry that the Patreon drawings are later than is even the normal amount that they're late. I went to start drawing them and my pen is out of batteries. So I had to order new batteries, normally, when that happens, I can go to the source which is like Canadian radio shack, if you're not familiar, get batteries there. Can't do that in the middle of the pandemic. So I had to order them online and hopefully they come today so I can draw the thumbnail for this video. We'll see. Let's put a pin in that for now. All right, have a great day you scamps.