https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aueiJaxev3kMisadventures in Polyamory: Episode 2(Hierarchies)Hello Youtube. This is chaosdude seventyone-eleven, and welcome back to misadventures in polyamory. So…last time the story I talked about was a misadventure, for sure,It was a dating misadventure, but uh inthe grander scheme of things it didn't have so much to do with polyamory as much as it was a misadventure in asexual dating or asexual dating trying to date allosexuals. This episode I'm going to share a story that is definitely more pertinent to polyamory than anything else.  So an issue that comes up a lot in polyamorous dating and polyamorous relationships is the issue of hierarchy.And personally I can't stand hierarchiesI um I don't like the idea of ranking the important people in my life like if I like somebody I like somebody if I care about somebody I care about them and I don't I don't like to arbitrarily place some people as having more important roles in my life. Especially not as a hard and fast rule. I prefer to look at relationships individually and it's not a matter of how much I feel for them it’s a matter of what I feel for them .and that's what's puts me in a bit of a pickle when it comes to dating people who are more hierarchical in their polyamory .And that's what this episode is about. Sosetting the scene this time, this took place last year.It was around anime boston season in fact it was during anime bostonand I went all three days of anime boston and Iput together a couple of different cosplays of characters from Kamen Rider.Um, for the first day I did mywhat I consider my signature cosplay which is uh Sengoku Ryoma from Kamen Rider Gaim, but on the second day I wanted to try something a little bit differentand so I cosplayed Urataros from Kamen Rider den-O.And the story takes place on that second day .So when I was looking at the schedule for anime Boston I found out that there was a tokusatsu panel.And considering these days I am way more,I don't want to say I’m more interested in tokusatsu, but that's basically all I'm watching right now.So going to a tokusatsu panel was really exciting for me So I decided to go and I you know went in my Ura cosplay.And Ura’s a bit of a flirt and so you know I played up that kind of side of me in going about my day,I you know tried to put on an air of being sort of more suave and charming and not my usual kind of awkward shy self.And so when I get to the toku panel I start to sit down, and I noticed this beautiful woman.Uh and there was an empty seat next to her ,so I kind of seized the opportunity and in my newfound Urataros inspired confidence I sat next to her and started, you know,striking up a conversation.And you know since we figured we were in attendance at the same panel we clearly had things to talk about ,and she seemed really really cool,we vibed really well,and she appreciated my costume and my kind of my role playing associated with it.And we exchanged phone numbers.And you know I was excited.Wasn’t necessarily expecting anything out of it because I saw that she was there with another woman,and they were clearly being affectionateand so.I was kind of like okay this this person's got a partner it seems like,but you know worth a try.And then I just go on with my day.Then I flash forward to that evening after the con is over for the day,and I get a text message from her and she says,Oh and by the wayit seems like I was flirting with you at the panel,I was.I'm just super awkward and poly is a thing that I do.And of course that's when I started getting excited because I thought that we were kind of flirting but I wasn't sure.So the fact that it was clearly mutual was exciting to me,cause at this point you know I'm still not really used to that .I've gotten the fair amount of dating experience under my belt the last couple of years but it's still a shock every any time that there is that much mutual attraction especially at first.usually I feel like it takes more effort than this,but but clearly I was doing something right.And so I get excited and I ask her if she's going to be at the con the next day and she wasn't, but we plan a date for the next week.So flash forward to that next week,and you know we've been talking a little bit over the course of the week and she seemed really cool, and she takes me out to this crepe place that I like to go to a lot. This crepe place is actually closer to where I currently live in Boston than It was it was kind of a trek from my last apartment but ,but you know I I was of course willing to make the trek for her .And so and I like this place so what and I had a actually had a gift card for that place so I was hoping to use it that day.And so I’m waiting outside the crepe place, then she shows up and we go in and order our food,And I go to pay with my gift card,And she you know hand waves just like no let me let me get this And I was like oh no I got a gift card I might as well use it And she's like no I insist.And so you know she insisted and hey it's a free meal and I can use my gift card at a later date.We sit down and we start talking and we start kinda talking about our lives and what we do and what's going on and I kind of figured this was the case but I but you know you can't always be sure,but turns out that she's trans too which was exciting to me, I mean Uh I in recent times I seem to I seem to meet and date a lot of trans women, but you know at the time it was still kind  it was still kind of a novelty to date somebody else who's trans and it was exciting. We had that to bond with as well as both being in the same fandom and you know both being poly and it was and the chemistry was still very much there. After we got done with the crepes we decided to walk around that area for a while and her and she livedUh about a 15 minute walk or so away from the restaurant I'm not a huge fan of PDA so I was trying to you know restrain myself when we were out and about in public,but then she invited me back to her apartment and when we got there she more or less kind of pounced on me .But not in an aggressive way.It was very much welcome.And it was just still astounding to me how just how much chemistry we seemed to have.And we were talking, and we were cuddling and things were going so well, and Apparently that partner that she has that she was with at the toku panel when we weretalking uh also lives with her.They are in a nesting relationship and I didn't know that,but you know they seem really good together and,I, you know she also this partner also seems cool and you know I figured if this girl and I ended up in a relationship then the partner would be a pretty cool metamour to have.Every thing that we talked about,everything that this woman and I talked about was it was just a hit of chemistry here it was a hit of chemistry there it was a hit of,You know it seemed like we were really in sync and I was really into her and the physical chemistry was really good too.At one point she straddled me and was you know feeling all around my back and my shoulders and I've got really I’ve got a really tense upper back and shoulder area and like even massage therapists have, like trained massage therapists have told me wow you're, you have such tight knots one point I was told that my knots have knots.And so it takes a great deal of strength and a really good massage for me to for this to really feel good. And this woman starts, starts feeling up and down my back and as soon as she gets to the tops of my shoulders,I just collapse into a puddle in her lap,I'm just you found my weakness I said,And she proceeded to keep going and,this all the while I was I just kept saying tomyself she ticks all the boxes. And this was around the time that I was just starting to see my current girlfriend, as well. I don't think she and I had committed yet we had only been we had only been dating for a couple weeks, but and I was also in a committed relationship that was on the rocks at this point.So I mentioned thatI mentioned both of those things and I refer to the girl who would become my current girlfriend by her first name andmentioned that you know she's trans too.And my date kind of lights up and says,oh I know somebody, I know a trans girl in this city with by this name do you know what her last name is. And I tell her what my girlfriend's last name is and apparently my date just starts collapsing into laughterbecause this girl that I'm on this date with and my current girlfriend, not only they like know each other my metamour.Um my metamour apparently used to live with this girl I was out with like years and years ago.And that's when I started laughing and I should have known right then and there thatthat meant that the trans and also the poly communities in the Greater Boston area are really freaking insular.That should have been a tip-off that you know this was not going to be the last time that I would run into people and go on dates with people who I already have mutual in common with.That’s going to beThat’s gonna be a running theme throughout several misadventures of mine is my dates knowing people that I already know where I already went out with.And I kind of took that as I'm like huh that's interesting I wonder what she the girl that was now my girlfriend would say when I tell herThat I went on date with you today and youknow my just like *unintelligible* bad,like do you think it'll be a problem that we're dating, like do you think it will be a problem we'd be going out and I said no I don't think it's a problem,like this girl’s really chill and if anything I think it would be funny and I also mentioned you know I'm going through a bit of a break up souh I'm not sure if I'm looking for anything serious right now but I’d like to keepseeing you. And that's kind of the consensus we click we came to. So the dates about to end and my date decides to you know walk me to the train station so I can get home and I had a long train ride home at that point.So we start walkingAnd we start talking about polyamory again and I'm starting to get excited I'm like oh is this going to be are we going to commit are we going to be together like I'm starting to fall pretty har.You can claim that this is a good quality or bad quality of mine but I typically fall really hard really fast.Like if I like somebody if I have chemistry with somebody I just kind of dive in. I'm like.So we're going home talking some more about polyamory and sort of what our relationship would look like and she throws out the words hierarchical throws out the word secondary, casual and I'm not sure at this point if I heard her correctly,but I start to get a feeling in my gut that you know this is not good that .And so I ask her just straight up I kind of interrupt her and I asked her so does that mean you are hierarchical or that you're not.Because I am really really not hierarchical.umAnd she said that she was and that you know she you know be only be able to seeme as a secondary, that her partner that she lives with you know is her primary, and they’re going to get married someday and all this that we could only be casual and secondary and,I did not handle that very well so,she tells me that she can only see me as a secondary and you know being a kamen rider fan I kind of make an uncouth jokeI'm like oh I could handle being a secondary after all I do love my secondriders .And she you know kind of pity laughs and is like oh it’s not like that it just means that we would you know be seeing each other casually.And I juststarted shutting down she hugged me goodbye and I got on a trainand I left and I tried to contact her again I was kind of like no I could totally handle being a secondary is my line of thinking I  if I care about somebody that much then I bite the bullet foryou know I tried to contact her a few times in the coming month or two to no avail. And for a while I was actually pretty upset about it ,like I was really falling for her and I thought that we would be a good match for each other.Like we connected on so many levels. Never again would I meet another trans ace poly kinky toku nerd ever again, Like.There there cannot be that many of us out there.And the fact that I was meeting one and went on a date with one and we had great chemistry was such a good, like I I wanted to seize the opportunity to start a relationship with this woman but, it turns out that we were not meant to be.And experiences that I've had post this adventure really do show me that it's a good thing that we didn't end up together because I cannot handle being a secondary. I need to know that I am that I'm important to the people I care about I to know that I'm just as worthy of love and attention as any primary partner would be.And I would not want to be with somebody who doesn't treat me with that same kind of love and attention that I'd be showing them. And so being a secondary is just not an option for me.And unfortunately that meant that a relationship with this person was not meant to be and that was another misadventure in polyamory.I hope you liked it I hope you learned somethinghope this kind of shed some light on a fairly common problem in polyamorous dating is it the trouble of hierarchy and non hierarchy.So I hope you enjoyed this story this misadventure in polyamory, and if you did please let me know.And stay tuned for the next adventure for now this is chaos dude seventy one elevensigning off.