Transgender History & Activists!! [CC] | ChandlerNWilsonhttps://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sFLOjGO4okgHello everyone, Chandler here and today is Transgender Day of Visibility! I just wanted to talk about why it's important and then offer some historical trans folks who were pioneers for activism and talk about what exactly being visible means. So firstly why do we have transgender day of visibility? What is the point of it? Well, Transgender Day Of Visibility was created in response to Transgender Day of Remembrance. Transgender Day of Remembrance is a day about mourning the loss of transgender people who have been murdered as a result of bigotry, hate, and transphobia. Transgender Day of visibility is about celebrating our lives and celebrating the the freedom to be ourselves and to be open to be out. So I asked you all on Twitter, "What does Transgender Day of Visibility mean to you and why is it important to you?" And here is what you all said."It's important for educational purposes and overall awareness. Instead of people getting incorrect, assuming information from unreliable sources, they can get it from actual trans individuals since T D O V is a way for trans people to feel more inclined to speak up against prejudice.""As a transgender woman having this day makes me both happy and sad. Sad that we have lost our fellow people in the community but also happy that those people are being honored as their true selves." "I think it's very cool mostly because I can track my mental state and transitioning state. Two years ago I couldn't post or talk about it because I wasn't out. A year ago I posted something but I was really hesitant. More time goes by more loud and proud I get and it makes me feel very good." "Hey Chandler T D O V makes me feel powerful and I always try to use this day to educate those in my life how to respect and appreciate all of my trans siblings. We're all in this crazy adventure together." "Because cis people need to understand that we're not choosing a lifestyle but that it's for mental health reasons. Quite a few cis people in my life has seen it as 'she wants to be a boy but I can keep saying she because it's not real' the 'want' thing is just wrong." "Helps me feel a little bit more valid and like I belong to something." "T D O V makes me feel loved and supported by those in my community. It's important to me because I can't always be out so seeing other trans people be proud and visible encourages me to never give up on being authentically true to myself." "For me Transgender Day of Visibility helps me raise awareness for the trans community within my friendship group who don't much about the trans community. It's important to me because the more I tell them about it the more they can tell other people who want to learn." "T D O V is important to me because it helps to aid and shed light on a situation of certain people. It makes me feel amazing because it means all our hard work has not gone to waste and we are accomplishing something in society that needs to be seen." "It makes me feel great to have a day dedicated to educating people about us and normalizing our existence seeing as trans people are still seen as 'freaks' in many places it's necessary and helpful.""It gives my brain an excuse to be proud of who I am and who I've become. Lets me know that it's okay to be me and that I can help others in more ways than just career-wise."So one thing I want to say is as a person who is a visible and out trans person, Trans Day of Visibility is very important to me because it lets me connect with other trans people. For me being able to see other trans people living authentically and just being true to themselves is very very powerful.Sometimes I get down on myself or sometimes I feel scared of society and I I worry that I won't be received well to society, and I worry that maybe people don't like me because of something I can't change or something that's very important to me, something that is a very core part of my humanity. So seeing other people not be afraid to be out and to be proud and to talk about their identities and to show their colors and wear their pride flags with just so much strength really makes me feel empowered. I like being able to see other people be unapologetically true to who they are. It inspires me to continue being out and to continue doing what I do and to continue being a voice for a community and to continue talking about trans issues, talking about trans rights, talking about my experiences with my transition and just not being afraid to be me and not worrying about what society has to say about it or what anyone thinks about who I am. It encourages me to continue feeling stable in myself and to continue feeling confident and strong and not letting someone else's opinions of my existence make me falter in any way or worry that I'm not good enough. Because Trans Day of Visibility is really a day to be able to celebrate this part of myself that society tells me that I should be ashamed of and it lets me feel not alone. So the next thing that I want to do is I want to go through some trans history with you all and show some other activists in the trans community that have been pioneers for this movement and who have helped us get to where we are today because we're in a space now, thanks to the Internet and thanks to media, that we get to essentially create our own spaces and we get to broadcast our voice in a way that we couldn't before. The Internet has encouraged creators like me to be able to demand our space and to be able to actually reach out to other people and to share our message and to be able to spread awareness in ways that we were held back from before. I want to share some stories of people who have led the movement and who have helped get us to where we are today.As time goes by, language changes and also there are different things that maybe we do know about people or we don't know about people or language that we change. So I'm just going to share some things but just know that some words that now we wouldn't use were words that were used before. Everything that I'm saying to you is coming from a place of positivity and not to be using 'incorrect terms' as a way to dehumanize people. I'm using terms as a way to educate that these were terms that were used in the past.In nineteen fourty four Pauli Murray was a black lawyer, organizer, and feminist activist.Murray saw testosterone as a drug to ease what they saw as "gender conflict" Murray is the first recorded attempt by a black female-assigned-at-birth person to acquire testosterone for masculinization.In nineteen fifty one Christine Jorgensen was an American trans woman who was the first person to become wildly known in the United States for having Sex Reassignment Surgery. She became an instant celebrity, using the platform to advocate for transgender people and became known for her directness and polished wit.In nineteen sixty four Reed Erickson was a trans man best known for his philanthropy that largely performed "almost every aspect of work done in the field of transsexualism in the U S and to a lesser degree in other countries." In this year he launched the Erickson Educational Foundation, a non-profit philanthropic organization funded and controlled entirely by Erickson.In nineteen sixty nine transgender and gender non-conforming people are among those who resisted arrests in a routine bar raid by police on June twenty eigth at Stonewall in New York City's GreenwichVillage thus helping to ignite the modern L G B T rights movement.In nineteen seventy seven the New York Supreme Court ruled that Renee Richards, a transgender woman who played professional tennis, was eligible to play in the United States Open as a woman. In nineteen ninety nine The advocate, Gwendolyn Ann Smith, organized the first Transgender Day of Remembrance to honor the memory of Rita Hester and other transgender people like her who were lost to bigotry and anti-transgender violence.In two thousand three Miss Major Griffin-Gracy, often referred to as "Miss Major," is a trans woman activist and community leader for transgender rights with a particular focus on women of color. She served as the Executive Director for the Transgender Gender Variant Intersex Justice Project.In twenty fourteen Blake Brockington was the first openly transgender homecoming king. He gained international attention.In twenty seventeen Andrea Jenkins made history in November by becoming the first openly transgender woman elected to public office in the U S.We have come so far and sometimes I know it is so easy to get caught up in the fact that it feels like we still have so much more to go, but it is so nice to be able to look back on the past and see just how far we've come.So if you like this video go ahead and like and subscribe if you're new here.Comment down below what is something that you learned? Or who is an L G B T Q activist that you look up to?You can follow me on Twitter. You can follow me on Instagram. I will be asking morequestions over there, and I will see you all very soon!Bye!