Exodus 17 Sermon - God in the midst of our trauma and protestToday's reading leads us into the parched heart of the desert, which seems fitting in our current circumstances, the wilderness wandering, a time of fear and scarcity, of hunger and thirst both literal and metaphorical, a time of uncertainty about where we will end up. If you're like me you grew up learning that the Israelites’ constant questioning,and demands of Moses and God, are examples of their foolish faithlessness. Why don't they just get that God, is on their side that God will provide them withanything they need. Today I invite you to read with me one example of Israel's questioning and demands in a different light. One that focuses on how trauma informs their behavior.After all every single one of us is living through a traumatic event right now. The pandemic that has upturned all of our lives, has caused those of us who assumed this country could keep us safe to question that, and that has ripped loved ones away from us, in a variety of ways.On top of that many of us are experiencing other forms of trauma, whether personal or collective. Collective like the ongoing trauma of being black in the United States, a nation that continues to prove its disregard for black lives.This has been evinced most recently, in the results of the case against Brianna Taylor's killers, and the continued state violence against those who dare to protest.Listen now for a word from God as told in exodus seventeen, verses one through seven.The whole community of Israelites broke camp, setting out for the wilderness of sin, according to the holy one's decree.They pitched camp at refudine, but there was no water for the people to drink.So the people protested against Moses.They said give us water that we may drink.Moses said to them, why do you protest against me, why are you testing the holy one?But the people were thirsty for water there, so they kept on lodging complaints against Moses.They said, what is this, did you bring us up out of Egypt to kill us, and our children, and our livestock ,with thirst, so Moses cried out to the holy one saying, what am I to do with this people, any little thing more and they will stone me.The holy one replied to Moses, go on, before the people, and take with you some of Israel's elders, and the staff with which you struck the Nile ,take that in your hand and go.Look I will be standing there, in front of you, on the rock at Horeb. And you will strike the rock and out from it will come water so that the people may drink.So Moses did so, in plain sight of the elders of Israel.He proclaimed the name of the place, Masa and Miraba ,because of the protests of the Israelites, and because they tested the holy one saying, is the holy one really in our midst, or not. A word from God, for the people of God.Trauma, just as water reshapes landscapes, eroding shorelines and carving caves into the bones of the earth, so trauma reshapes us.A dramatic event may crash into us, heavy and quick as a tsunami, or else like a stalactite steady drip, it may drag on across months, years, even entire generations.Either way what makes an event traumatic for an individual, or for a community is that its effects are self disintegrating, world upheaving, and leave a lasting mark.Just because the Israelites have escaped enslavement does not mean that the impact of that bondage doesn't follow them into the wilderness, trauma does not fall away as easily as shackles.So let us rewind.Looking back at the enslavement of the Hebrews described in the earliest chapters of Exodus, because what they experienced then, can tell us why they react to thirst in the desert, the way that they do.The book of Exodus opens to find the people of Israel thriving in Egypt, having migrated to Egypt generations before with their ancestor Joseph, the Israelites are fully welcomed and respected by their Egyptian neighbors.But, with the rise of a new Pharaoh, Egypt transforms from a haven, and a home, into a hellscape almost overnight for the Hebrews, who find themselves suddenly enslaved by their own neighbors.It is no wonder that the Hebrews have been warped, into a suspicious and distrustful people, by the time Moses comes along.And yet, when Moses and Aaron first tell the Hebrews of God's promise to deliver them in chapter four of Exodus, these people whose ability to trust has been so grievously wounded, do the unthinkable, they trust, they bow down and worship and celebrate the news, that God knows their misery, that God can and will deliver them.So often we criticize the Hebrews for how their faith constantly wavers, but I think the real miracle is that they are able to trust at all, even if only in fits and starts.But as soon as it looks like their precious new trust might bear fruit, Pharaoh smashes it. He orders the people's overseers to stop providing them with the straw with which they make bricks, but not to reduce their daily quota of bricks.Working non-stop to avoid beatings, and trying to achieve an impossible task, these people are too exhausted, and terrorized, to unite and fight.Pharaoh tramples that miraculous moment of trust, maybe the people even feel foolish and naive for daring to hope, that's God's first goal in moving her people not only from Egypt into the promised land, but from trauma into the long work of recovery, is to provide them with the safety, and the security that they need, to place their trust fully in God. Because as trauma expert Judith Herman says, you cannot begin the process of trauma recovery without first restoring a sense of control and stability, a safe environment with a plan for continued security.This is why for example, the collective trauma of the black American community is ongoing, though their official enslavement ended a good one hundred and fifty years ago, this country has never become a safe environment for them.How can there be recovery, for a people that is re-traumatized every time another one of their number is profiled, or imprisoned, or even murdered, just for being black.And for Israel, how can there be recovery when they still face violence. Not from the Egyptians anymore, but now from the desert's desolation.That returns us to today's reading, the people's throats are parched, their spirits are sinking again for there is no water, and so not for the first time they start to wonder, and to worry.Does God really have their interests at heart?Or have they traded one tyrant, Pharaoh, for another.After all Egypt's leaders used to be good to them, enabled their flourishing, until one sudden day ,when all of Egypt turned on them.What if God is the same, luring them out into the desert not to empower them but to overpower, them not to liberate them but to subjugate them once more under a new master.Moses, wholly but human Moses, is frustrated and even frightened, by the Israelites’doubts and complaints and accusations.He responds not by attending to their needs, but by attempting some crowd control.Stop protesting, stop testing God, God help me out here. But God, whose holy name means beingness, is all about steadfastness and constancy, does not respond as the human Moses responds.Ze does not respond by chastising the people, but by giving them what they demand, because it is not a petty demand, it is a keenly felt need, water. God never implies that the people were wrong to bring their complaints to Moses, or even that they were wrong to question God, in fact let's look at the Hebrew, and we will see how the text emphasizes the legitimacy of the Israelites complaints. In verse two most translations say that the people complained to Moses, or argued with him, saying, give us water that we might drink.But the Hebrew word for what they are doing here is a verb that is used elsewhere in the bible for legal issues.It's about making your case, bringing a case to court ,you might say that the people arebringing litigations against Moses, or even that they are suing him.They want proof that he is the worthy leader he promised that he is. Because right now they are dying of thirstm so it doesn't seem like it.Meanwhile, the way that I choose to translate this verb, is protest.The people protested against Moses, because I see in this story a link to our present day, in the movement for black lives.Human beings with legitimate, and desperately felt needs, are making their case through protests. They are questioning their government's leaders, and whether these leaders truly have their interests at heart.But most of these leaders’ responses, focus on crowd control.They send in police armed for war, wielding rubber bullets and tear gas, who escalate non-violent protests into riots.But God's response is the response of a worthy leader. It is to listen to their people's needs, to the people's demands and protests, and to attend to those needs.Look, God says, look, I will be standing right there in front of you on the rock at Horeb,and I will give you water to drink.There is God's answer to the people's question,is the holy one really in our midst or not.It's not to punish them for having that question, but to offer evidence yet again that the answer is yes, I do have your interests at heart my people, I have been on your side this whole time saving you from Pharaoh's brutality giving you mana and quail to eat, and now I will give you water to drink. I am not going anywhere.Trauma has so shaped this people's attitudes and behaviors, that suspicion, and lashing out at those who want to help them is all they can do, and yet God remains. True to her name God is and will be with the people, right there in their midst as they struggle with the aftermath of their trauma. And God repeats that promise of deliverance and safety as many times as the people need to hear it.My friends this is the best thing that we can do, for one another as we struggle through our various levels and kinds of trauma, we must stick together.We must show up for each other promising that we are not going anywhere, and doing our best to believe that very thing, when people promise it to us.This includes continuing to affirm black lives matter, and protesting against the powers that be, when those powers continue to violate the dignity of black persons, of indigenous persons, of asylum seekers, and trans persons, and disabled persons, and on, and on.It means holding the courageous conversations, that teach us how to be worthy siblings in solidarity, with one another.Beloved child of God, be gentle with yourself when your own trauma impacts your behavior and your attitude.It's okay, let the hard days be hard.There will be people who stick by you, we here at grace will continue to practice being the people who stick by you ,who show up for you.Be gentle with yourself, and with others, don't let them walk all over you because trauma does not give us an excuse to harm others, but cultivate understanding, and compassion, for why people do the things that they do.We are all learning how to live after trauma and through trauma together, we will all mess up, but God empowers us to get up again, and again, and again.Look for God in our midst for God is involved in the struggle not in some distant heaven but right here, right now, just as she was long ago for Moses and the people in the desert.That is not going anywhere. And by her grace neither are we, thanks be to God.