Genesis 45 Sermon: Joseph Comes Out - genderqueer thriving, reconciliation, & centering the marginsToday's sermon reading drops us right into the middle of the story of Joseph of Genesis, that second youngest and most beloved son of Jacob, with his dreams of greatness, hiscolorful coat, and brothers who hate him.Genesis has already been telling Joseph's story for a good eight chapters when our reading begins, which means we need quite a bit of backstory before we can dive in. Today's reading carries us past the trauma and betrayal of Joseph's brothers throwing him into a pit, and selling him into slavery, shoving him out of their lives in Canaan, to go toil in Egypt.We've been carried past the miraculous ascension of Joseph from slave to co-ruler of Egypt, and finally we've been carried past the years of preparation for a famine that Joseph predicted.Enabling Egypt to store up enough foodstuffs to feed not only them but all of the neighboring nations, for seven years of scarcity.When our reading today finally begins, Joseph's brothers have come to buy food, and they don't even recognize that the mighty figure providing them with grain is their own sibling. It has been fifteen years after all, but Joseph recognizes them, and without revealing his identity to them he comes up with a convoluted plot to test them. To see whether they have changed at all.He accuses them of being spies to their utter bafflement and says he won't believe that they are simply brothers in need of food unless they can bring their little half-brother Benjamin all the way to Egypt.So they go home to Canaan, confused and afraid, and when they run out of supplies off they return to Egypt with Benjamin in tow, Joseph continues his complicated test by accusing Benjamin of stealing a cup. Benjamin will have to rot in Egyptian prison for his crime. But no, let me take his place, Judah cries. We will not allow our father to lose his youngest son, not again.They have passed Joseph's test.Fifteen years before the brothers had jumped at the chance to cast their half-brother out even if it meant their father's heartbreak ,and Joseph's enslavement.But today they are given another chance to make the same decision, and this time they make the right choice.And that at last is where today's scripture reading picks up.A reading from the book of Genesis chapter fourty five.Joseph could no longer control himself before all his attendance so he cried out, make everyone go out from my presence so no one remained with him when he came out to his brothers as Joseph. But he let out such loud sobs that the Egyptians could hear.And so the house of Pharaoh heard of it.Joseph said to his brothers, I am Joseph does my father still live.But his brothers could not answer so shaken were they by his face.So Joseph said to his brothers please come closer to me.So they came closer, and he said, I am Joseph the brother that you sold into Egypt, now do not blame yourselves, or let your eyes burn, because you sold me here, for it was to save lives that God sent me ahead of you.For the past two years the famine has pervaded the land, and for five years more shall there be neither plowing nor harvesting. God sent me ahead of you to set for you a remnant in the land, and to save your lives by a great deliverance.So now it is not that you sent me here but the God who set me as advisor over Pharaoh, and the lord of all his household and ruler over all the land of Egypt.Hurry go back to my father and say to him thus says your son Joseph.God has set me as lord over all of Egypt.Come down to me, do not delay, you shall dwell in the land of Goshen, and you shall be close by me.You, your children, your grandchildren, your flocks, your herd, all that is yours. I will support you there.Since there will be five more years of famine so that you will not fall into poverty.You, your household and all that is yours.Look, your eyes and the eyes of my brother Benjamin see that it is my mouth speaking to you, so tell my father about all of my thriving, here in Egypt and about all you have seen.Hurry bring my father down here.Then he fell upon the neck of Benjamin, his brother, and cried.And Benjamin cried into his neck, and he kissed all of his brothers and cried over them, after this his brothers conversed with him.A word from God for the people of God.It's the raw emotion of this scene that hits me the hardest.It's the gut roiling utterly overwhelming emotion that accompanies some queer coming out stories.Joseph's insuppressible sobs ring loud in my ears just as they echoed through the palace of Egypt that day.They're the kind of sobs that start in your stomach, and grip your throat, and make your shoulders shake like an earthquake, the sobs of one with a deep long-standing hunger to be seen, to be known, and a deep dread of what will happen upon being seen and known.Because these brothers kneeling at Joseph's feet, who do not even recognize the resplendent figure before them as the sibling that they once cast out to live in misery, have hurt him before upon the barest hint into his true identity.Fifteen years ago they glimpsed the truth of Joseph's identity from beneath his rainbow robes, and their lips curled in revulsion.Genesis tells us that if nothing else Joseph's brothers resented him for being daddy's favorite, being something of a tattletale, and for sharing dreams in which he arises above them to be aboard.But some queer readers of Joseph's story, also taste the bitter tang of transphobia in the particular flavor of these brothers’ hatred.Jewish midrash tells us that teenager Joseph pencilled his eyes, and curled his hair, and walked with a feminine turn to his heel, and the Hebrew term for Joseph's iconic technicolor dreamcoat can be translated as, princess dress.That fateful day fifteen years before our reading Joseph's brothers watch him sashaying towards them in rippling robes, and rage boils up within them.While Joseph is just a teenager in a pretty dress dreaming big dreams of love and respect, Joseph's brother sees something dangerous in him.Gender nonconformity is a threat to their own masculinity and Jacob's favoritism is a threat to their own inheritance, so they attack.They rip the robe from Joseph's body, they throw him in a pit, and they sell him away. Like so many transgender, and gender non-conforming persons across the centuries,Joseph is driven from the community, he does not fit, he does not belong, he somehow threatens the unity of the group, and that cannot be tolerated.Adding this element to the shock and trauma of Joseph's experience helps us understand just what complex and overwhelming emotions are boiling through him as he finds himself face to face with the brothers who nearly killed him. As he concocts a plan to see whether they've changed, and finally, as he reaches this coming out moment.Where he gasps through his sobs, it's me it's Joseph, do you see me, do you know me.And at first they do not.They cannot, because the picture of Joseph that they have woven, in their heads ,is so utterly unlike the person begging them to recognize him.They firmly believe that the little sibling they abandoned, to a life of slavery, is languishing in some far corner of Egypt, this foreign land.But no!This highly revered figure, draped in finest linen, bedecked in golden jewelry, resplendent in Egyptian makeup, this is Joseph.Miraculously, impossibly, and like so many marginalized persons in our world who are excluded from fruitful environments, and driven into ghettos, prisons, reservations, polluted lands, and over-policed streets, Joseph has managed to thrive.Our own church member ,and university professor, Barry Cole, wrote his dissertation on what he terms shunned spaces.The hostile environment forced upon people of color, upon L G B T Q plus persons, and others.Spaces that these persons somehow, some way, transform into their own sanctuaries, apart from and in spite of, their oppressors.Barry writes largely of ghettos and other marginalized spaces, that are deliberately and systemically sucked dry of valuable resources by the dominant society, spaces subject to periodic invasion, poisoned with poverty, and excluded from politics, and yet, Barry shows us, and yet, these shunned spaces are also portals of cultural productivity enacted by residents, who employ incredible feats of ingenuity to keep themselves and their peoples from fragmenting apart.I also think of spaces like the black church, a term that sounds monolithic but is ofcourse no more homogeneous than white majority churches are, but what the various communities within the black church share, is that in a time when persons of color were not allowed to worship with white people these faith spaces developed rich, life affirming forms of worship, with powerful music, and priceless theological value.These churches became sanctuaries, where African Americans could lift their heads high, and be somebody one day of the week. In a world where they were despised and dehumanized, in which they were told that black lives did not matter.And I think too of spaces created by L G B T Q plus folks across the centuries, of victorian mali houses with their little chapels, where men could marry men, and women could marry women, of the ballroom culture ruled over by trans and gender non-conforming black and latine visionaries, of bars and nightclubs like stonewall inn, like pulse in orlando where our kind can celebrate a spiritual embodiness together, in spite of those who would desecrate such spaces.When the mainstream churches cannot stand the presence of anyone who does not fit their idea of what it means to be made in God's image.When they shove such persons out, and lock their doors tight, God's abundance follows after the outcasts, just as it followed Joseph across desert sands into slavery and imprisonment.Joseph's family drove him out of their midst, denying how his differences enriched the whole.And so it is with white majority churches, and with respectable churches who have no room for queer folk, we drive out the very persons whose glimpses of God we most desperately need. And then we lament that our numbers have dwindled that famine has found us, and death crouches at our doors, meanwhile communities of color find ways to nourish each other. L G B T Q persons come together, and hold each other ,build each other up into something numinous.Likewise, Joseph, an enslaved genderqueer foreigner in Egypt, learns how to thrive in the very land and circumstances meant to break him. God reworks the tapestry of Joseph's life, takes the tattered shreds left in the wake of his brother's betrayal, the threads ripped out by men who think they can own human beings, and God weaves it into something new and vital. God blesses every Egyptian who treats Joseph with respect from his master's household, to prison to Pharaoh's own palace, and the most incredible thing, is that it's the very parts of Joseph that his brothers so reviled that caused the Egyptians to respect him and even to adore him.Joseph's queer dreams, his unique insight and powers of interpretation, eventually gain him the audience of the Pharaoh.The differences, the weirdness that his brothers found unbearable, turn out to be vital, urgently needed gifts for the entire world.Because of his unique vision, Joseph is able to predict the coming famine, and guide Egypt in preparing for it, ensuring that they enjoy abundance, that will see them and the whole world through seven years of scarcity. And all of this work happens long before Joseph meets his brothers again. And that fact is so important when we look to this story for strategies for reconciliation and repentance in our own day.These huge and complicated topics that far too often we try to condense into a simple, I'm sorry, and a simple I forgive you.The first steps in the reconciliation of Joseph, and his brothers, take place long before they ever face each other again, it takes place when the wrongdoers and the one wronged are still separate from each other.A few chapters before our reading we find evidence that the brothers have for years been wracked with a guilt, when they recalled the anguish of Joseph's heart, when he pleaded with us and we paid no heed.They feel genuine painful remorse, they know a similar anguish to what Joseph feels every time they look at their father, and see the grief that bends his back and clouds his eye.Meanwhile Joseph has made progress in the lifelong journey of trauma recovery. As he moves from circumstances that daily endanger his life, to the security of being Pharaoh's most trusted advisor, Joseph has been able to construct a narrative, around his trauma, that works for him.We heard him describe that narrative in today's reading, don't blame yourselves for what you did, he says to his brothers, because God sent me here in order to save lives.Now, many traumatized or grief-torn people find it insulting, to be pressured into accepting their pain as part of a bigger plan, to be told don't worry everything happens for a reason, no outside party should ever try to force such an idea on a person who is wronged or grieving, but for some, like for Joseph, looking for places where God's hand is visible at work in the midst of the trauma and the pain is a powerful healing thing.Joseph looks back on all that he has gone through, and while I do not believe that God is the one who orchestrated Joseph's trauma, it is clear that God has been with him in it every step of the way ,and that God took meaningless pain and made it matter.God reworked the tapestry, so that bondage transformed into abundance, betrayal into lives saved, God made it matter.And Joseph finds this fact so healing, that far before he ever has the chance to reunite with his brothers, he names one of his two sons Manasseh, because he explains God has made me forget entirely the sufferings I endured at the hands of my family.The other son he names Ephraim because God has made me fruitful in the land of my affliction.Joseph truly has taken a shunned space and shaped it into his own sanctuary.It is only because Joseph has had this time to do the inner work of recovery, that he can bear to stand before his brothers now, and even consider reconciliation. And even so it is not easy for him, he has to retreat from them to cry several times throughout the story, and in our reading, he gets so choked up at the moment of his coming out, that he can scarcely get his words out.Reconciliation is not easy for anyone who has been wronged as Joseph has been wronged, even if they yearn for it.It should not be forced on anybody, it must happen on the survivor's own terms. And Joseph's terms for reconciliation involve solid evidence that his wrongdoers have truly changed, that if given the chance to repeat their previous crimes against him they would not. That is why Joseph devises the convoluted plan I described earlier, that does unfortunately drag the innocent Benjamin into the situation.While we must reject strategies for reconciliation that endanger the innocent, Joseph sees this test as necessary, for both himself as the wronged person, and for the brothers who wronged him.Queer Jewish scholar Jace Schwartz, says that Joseph is finally able to embrace his brothers, because he is strategic about coming out as himself.Joseph knows he is in a position of power now and physically safe, he tests his brothers by asking about Benjamin, an attempt to learn if he is emotionally safe.If his brothers will cast Benjamin aside as they did to him, in the past Joseph has no need, or responsibility to give them the opportunity to harm him , to re-traumatize him. Meanwhile giving the wrongdoers this chance to prove themselves, to atone for their horrific deeds, is important for their healing too.When we so drastically harm others, and experience genuine remorse later on, we yearn to be able to do more than just say we're sorry. The opportunity to repent, to make things right, not only in words but in deeds, is a gift that Joseph extends to his brothers.When I think of the harm that white Christians like myself have wrought against black indigenous Christians of color, and against persons of religions that are marginalized, and oppressed in our culture, I yearn for opportunities to make amends, and it's not about being a white savior, no. We must resist any temptation towards that. Towards thinking that we can swoop in and rescue the very ones that we put in perilous situations. Look at the story of Joseph, his brothers don't come to him and save him from the bondage they threw him into, he saves himself, or rather God empowers him to save himself, to shape his affliction into abundance.Likewise when I think of the rich and life-affirming communities, and beliefs that marginalized persons of our day have built for themselves, it seems really unjust to pressure them to come reunite with us in our spaces, now that we feel bad about kicking them out .Instead of looking to save them, to integrate them into our normative structures, we should come to them, with the deep humility, looking to see what gifts they bring to the body of Christ.What if we also asked, how can we build relationships with black majority churches, or with immigrant churches ,or with non-Christian worship communities, in ways that don't expect them to assimilate to our spaces, to our worship and beliefs and behaviors, but instead center their marginalized perspectives, and cultivate true mutuality.Joseph is the one who saves his brothers. His whole family, his entire world. And Joseph never goes back to Canaan, never returns to the community that drove him away, because he failed to conform to their standards.Instead, he miraculously, and possibly graciously invites them into the sanctuary that he created for himself, where he is the one at the center.Hurry, go get our father Jacob and bring him here to Egypt, he tells his brothers, you can all live near me in Goshen, not quite with me, not under the same roof, because chances are we will never get back to that kind of relationship, not in this broken world, but close to me, where we can visit one another, and nourish one another, and celebrate one another, as we move forward, as we reimagine what it means to reconcile, and what gifts we urgently need to be open to receiving from the most shunned members of God's community on earth. I want to close by bringing you a beautiful piece of poetry. In this poem, Lucille Clifton, invites all of us to celebrate with her the impossible miracle of her own thriving, just as God empowered the outcast Joseph to flourish and bear good fruit, so Clifton celebrates her own survival, and self-creation, in a world that told her that as a black woman her life did not matter.Here's the poem: Won't you celebrate with me what I have shaped into a kind of life.I had no model.Born in Babylon both non-white and woman what did I see to be, except myself.I made it up here on this bridge between starshine and clay, my one hand holding tight, my other hand.Come celebrate with me, that every day something has tried to kill me, and has failed. Thanks be. Thanks be to God.