Executive Dysfunction, Jesus, and ElijahHey there, my friends! It has been a while since I did a video for my Disabled and Blessed series!Um, there's a lot of reasons for that, but a big one is that I have been really struggling um with my executive functioning.So I decided, um, "Okay, I haven't been able to sort of motivate myself and gather up the energy and everything I need in order to do enough research for a big, um, well-planned-out video, um, so I'm just gonna do what I can to make a video, um, with the energy and the motivation that I do have." So this is just a casual little video with my musings, um, about what good news there is for people with executive dysfunction, issues.Um.So I'm gonna talk about what that means, and also talk about, um, where I see good news in the Bible for those of us who have these issues. [cat meows] Oh, hello Nerys! Whatcha doin'? Um...Okay, so, let's start by talking about, what is executive dysfunction?Executive dysfunction is when the executive function commands in your brain don't work the way that, um, a neurotypical brain supposedly should work. It affects a lot of people, people like myself who are autistic; people who have ADHD, OCD; um, people who have anxiety or depression, um, but I also feel like in this time of pandemic when a lot of people are going through various forms of um anxiety and trauma, even people who are normally neurotypical, um uh, there's a lot of sort of mental and emotional and spiritual strain going on right now that's probably causing a lot of people to have some trouble with their executive functioning. Executive functions are the the things in your brain that execute action; so some of the executive functions are things like: um, organizing, prioritizing, and activating work. There's the ability to focus, um, and being able to shift attention to new tasks, um, in a supposedly normal amount of time; there is regulating your own alertness level, sustaining effort; there's managing your emotions um, that's one I have a lot of trouble with this. And, um one of the executive functions is just being able to modulate your own emotions. Um.So basically, your executive functions, um uh, the things in your brain that allow you to say, Okay, here's the task I want to complete. Um.I just sort of know what steps I need to do in order to start the action, and to continue the action til it's done. Um, so I'm not gonna um never start it; and then if I do start it I'm not gonna like, fizzle out before it's done.Um, I'm gonna link to some articles and maybe some videos if I can dig some up that give a better explanation of what executive dysfunction is and what the executive functions in the brain are, because I'm not a psychologist, I'm not probably wording it as well as I could.And the thing with executive dysfunction is a lot of times it's mistaken for laziness. Um.Just because you're struggling or you find it impossible to start a task, um, doesn't mean you're lazy, doesn't, it's not a value judgment on your moral character. It's something going on with your brain, and it's not your fault.Um, and there are ways to sort of figure out how to work around it and improve your functioning, um, but it's, again, even if you can't figure that out right now it's not anything against you, it's not against your character to say, "hey, I'm having trouble with my executive functioning.”It's not laziness, especially because um, people with executive dysfunction like myself find that it affects even things they like to do! For instance, I'll be really excited to make a video, and make a post online uh I know I have weird, I have weird hobbies, things I enjoy, but these are things I really enjoy doing and yet I still can't get myself to start them!So it's not just stuff that we don't like um or are dreading; it's also things we're really eager for. So it kinda sucks! Um.So I want to see if there's any sort of encouragement, um, good news I can find in scripture for folks who are having, who either have uh, executive dysfunction disorder um, or, just in times like this of extreme stress, um, experience it just for a little while if that makes sense. Um, I keep thinking of Jesus's ministry and the fact that he didn't get started in like his official ministry until he was like thirty years old! That's three decades of life where he was doing, what? Just hanging out with his family, um, learning carpentry, stuff like that. Why, what took him so long to get started? And that's how I think a lot of people feel um, when they see someone who has executive dysfunction, or if it's, like, you yourself who has it, like, you're just like, "why can't you just start?What is taking you so long?" Not saying that Jesus's reason for waiting is executive dysfunction, just saying I see aresonance there. Like, I'm wondering about his story, what took him so long to get started.Nerys, honey, why are you always going on my altar? And yeah, what was I saying.So yeah. I see in Jesus's story, the fact that it took him so long um to get started on his official ministry, um as sort of an encouragement, it's okay when it takes me super long to get started on things. For instance, the fact that most of my seminary classmates who graduated the same year I did, that was last May, um, they have jobs, they know what they're doing, they're pastors, they're chaplains, um, they're, they're studying to get a doctorate, they know what's up. Meanwhile I'm, I'm unemployed, I have no official ministry right now, I just have this online ministry stuff, and sometimes I feel bad about that. But it is kind of encouraging to be like, okay, Jesus didn't start his official ministry till he was thirty. I'm twenty five right now, I've got time! And it's also really important to remember that the time before his official ministry, even though most of it didn't get written down, we don't have, sort of, even in the non-canonical um stuff written about his life, we don't have too much about the time before his ministry, um, even though it didn't get written down doesn't mean he wasted his time, doesn't mean it was time wasted, It doesn't mean his life before then was not worthwhile, if that makes sense. He was still doing stuff, um, even if it's not the stuff that would get written down or that sort of got his name spread across his region of the world.He was with his family, spending quality time with his family, and probably with neighbors. He was probably doing a lot of watching and listening and learning.He was hearing and reading the scriptures, um, and watching the world around him, paying attention to nature, paying attention to people, um, formulating his metaphors about the kingdom of God, formulating his ideas of justice and compassion and how power is about compassion and not violence and control. Um, he was preparing for that ministry that would come later. And he was probably helping people in small ways in the meantime. So even when your executive dysfunction stops you from completing sort of the big things that will get you acclaim from the world, um, or get your parents off your back about, when are you gonna get a job or whatever,You can often still accomplish little tasks, even if that task is merely getting yourself to the next day! I know that sometimes when executive dysfunction is really severe, you can't even get out of bed. You can't even get yourself to the bathroom to brush your teeth or to take a shower, you can't get yourself a meal. And that is okay too. It is an accomplishment just to get yourself to the next day, even if it takes you all day and every drop of energy you have to get yourself there. I think of the story of Elijah told in first Kings nineteen, where Elijah literally says to God, "I have had enough! I am done!" He has he has run away from enemies who want to kill him, he's out in the wilderness all alone, and he is just ready to die. He says, "God, I'm done, take my life, I'm done! I've had enough! I literally cannot go on." For him the idea of starting a new action, a new ministry, anything like that, um, has just failed him. He cannot seem to do anything. So he says, "God, I'm done. Just take my life now, I’m I'm ready to go." Um, and God's response is to feed him. A messenger of God comes, taps his shoulder, and says,"Hey, Get up! Eat something!" And it says that "Elijah opened his eyes and saw flatbread baked on glowing coals and a jar of water right by his head. He ate and drank, and then he went back to sleep. The Lord's messenger returned a second time, and tapped him. 'Get up!' the messenger said. ‘Eat something, because you have a difficult road ahead of you.' So Elijah got up, ate and drank, and he went refreshed by that food for forty days and nights until he arrived at Horeb, God's Mountain." Gosh. I just, I think that story is meaningful to so many people, but it really resounds in my heart when it comes to when, some, my my brain just can't do it on its own. When I, I can't get out of bed, "I'm done, I can't do it anymore, I'm done!" And it means so much to have a friend, someone who cares enough to tap you on the shoulder and say, "hey, get up and eat! That's all you gotta do! Look, I've prepared the food for you, it's all ready, all you have to do is put it in your mouth, and then you can go back to sleep." So Elijah gets up, he eats and he goes back to sleep, because that's all he's able to do that day. Um. I think it's really, really, it is a godsend, just as God sent that angel, that messenger, to Elijah and had food prepared for Elijah so all he had to do is get it in his mouth, and then eventually there came a day when he was able to eat the food and be refreshed enough to continue his journey, um, that's so powerful to me and that is to me one of the most important things you can do if someone you love is experiencing this trouble with their executive functioning. Um, hi Nerys. If they just can't seem to get something done even if they really want to, be there for them.Help make it easier for them.And if you're the person who needs the help, that's an okay place to be too, we see Elijah, who is this powerful man who gets a lot of work done in his life, um, and we see Jesus, who is the Son of God, literally God incarnate, who takes time during his ministry, all the time, he's taking a lot of breaks. In Mark six, Jesus is the voice um, urging his disciples to eat and to rest. Um, starting at verse thirty it says, "The Apostles returned to Jesus and told him everything they had done and taught. Many people were coming and going, so there was no time even to eat.He said to the apostles, 'come, by yourselves, to a secluded place, and rest for a while.'They departed in a boat by themselves for a deserted place." So Jesus reminds the disciples that in the midst of all their work it's time to take abreak. So again, just that reminder that when you find that you're unable to do anything, that's not wasted time! It's okay to just be. So when you find that your brain or your body sort of forces you to rest, that's okay.Take a rest, take it slow, do what you can to gather people around you who can help nudge you, um,in a kind way, in a gentle way, never forcing you to do something you can't, um, and being understanding when you just can't do something, but who can help you find whatever potential you do have in yourself to get things done. Even if it's as simple as getting up, eating, and going back to bed. So yeah, that’s that's the video! That's all I have for you today. I would love to hear, do you find any stories in scripture that you think talk to people with executive dysfunction? I'd love to hear them. Take care all of you, and if you can, be kind to yourself, whatever state you find yourself in. Um.Be kind to yourself, be kind to others, and know that it's okay when you just don't have the energy, the ability to do something. That's okay. You are still worthwhile.And there will be time.