Neopronouns: What they are, why they're legitimate, and how to get used to themHi, hey, what's up? Um, please ignore the mess that is this room, um, this is a really informal video so I was too lazy to uh clean before starting. um, so I, on facebook, um, posted that I'd be willing to take anyone's questions on pronouns, um,I am myself a nonbinary, transgender person, um, who uses they pronouns as well as ze pronouns, and I'm also a linguist, I’ve studied linguistics and multiple languages, I really like language and grammar, so yeah, I just figured I would share whatever knowledge I can with anyone who has questions, and quite a few people asked specifically about neopronouns, so instead of taking the time to write it all out I thought I would just talk it all out. Um.So that's what this video is for. Well, to start with, I should probably explain what neopronouns are, just to, you know, get, get us on that footing first. So pronouns in English or any language are words that take the place of a noun. For instance, if I say something like, "Leah is my wife," "she is my wife,," "she" is a pronoun, "oh no, I lost my book, I lost it," "It" is a pronoun, right? Okay, pretty easy, right? But um when we're talking specifically about like, transgender and nonbinary stuff, we're talking specifically about personal pronouns, the the pronouns that we use for persons! And so "she" is a personal pronoun cause it modifies "my wife," who is a person, you know, pretty simple stuff. And most people who don't know anything about nonbinary stuff would assume that the two options English has for these pronouns is, um, in the third person, that is, is um, she or he, right? You can use she her hers herself or he him his himself. Um. And then a good number of people are a little more knowledgeable than that are aware that some people also use they pronouns. Um. So for instance, using myself in a sentence: "Avery is cool, they love language, Uh, two cats live with them." But yeah, they pronouns, he pronouns, she pronouns, those are not neopronouns.Neopronouns you might if you know anything about prefixes, "neo" means "new" and then pronouns. So they're pronouns that are fairly new, right? That he, she, they, these have been around in English for centuries and centuries and centuries, whereas neopronouns have been invented relatively recently, most of the ones that we have on record are from the nineteen hundreds or the two thousands, and typically for the purpose of describing someone who doesn't fit into the binary categories of male and female, Um. For this video, I’m going to talk about how they're used particularly by nonbinary people, trans people, and gender nonconforming people, but there's also a cool history of neopronouns being used, for instance, in a lot of science fiction stories. Um, and I'll give links where you can read up on all of that for yourself. But yeah, so, neopronouns are sets of pronouns that um, for the sake of our conversation, have been invented by various people to help describe their gender better than he, she, they or any of those um succeeds in doing for them. So here's the first question: "is there a 'canon' of neopronouns, and is it open or closed." Um so basically, um, is there like a set, uh is there a list of neopronouns you can go to somewhere online that will show you every neopronoun that there is,  um, and there's never going to be any new ones if it's a closed canon, right, the answer is nom because um, you know, there's no one organization of trans people making dictionaries, and they get it all in there and persm you know, then there's prescriptivism about what neopronouns are legitimate ones and which ones are fake and all of that, mm mm. It's just people coming up with words that fit them, and say for me, I like ze pronouns, I did not make those up! Somebody else several decades ago made them up, and I said "ooh I like those, I'll take those, use them for me as well."But if I had decided, you know, I can look at this long list that I found on google, uum, a long list of neopronouns and none of them work for me, well, here's the good news: I have a brain, I have creativity, I'll just make up my own! And I can come up with a new a brand new set of pronouns.So yeah, there's not a canon of neopronounsm but there are ones that are more commonly used than others, the ones that I use ze hir, or alternatively ze zem or ze zir. Um. That's one of the more common sets of neopronouns. Some other common ones include ey em, and fae faer, and xe xem with an x instead of a z, or spell z I e instead of z e, so just some spelling differences. And if you're like "oh my gosh, how do I know how to use these and pronounce them" and all that, I’ll get to that, um, later on in this video. But yeah, so you can definitely google and find more common ones, but if someone tells you that they use a set you've never heard of or you can't find on google in a list, it's still legitimate, they're legitimate pronouns. And so another question asked is, "can you share some of the reasons non-binary folk might use neopronouns over they them?" Well, there's a really simple answer that is not very, you know, it's a bit more subjective, and it's just that they fee like, a person might decide that just like, they don't like being called she, don't like being called he, maybe they also don't like the feel of being called they. Um. And so they avoid all those pronouns for themself, um, and instead say "oh, well, you could call me ze instead." Um so yeah, it's, it's honestly, the main thing is it's just a feeling thing, right? What feels good when you hear people talk about you. Um. Does it feel good to hear them use um this set of pronouns instead of this one? I mean think about it this way: I bet there are some sets of pronouns that you would be uncomfortable being used for you, for instance, so, say you're a cisgender man and, uh, someone starts calling you she one day, um. You probably, maybe not, some, you know, some people are chill, are like "cool whatever,” but you might be like "hey, what gives? Why are you calling me she her; I use he him pronouns and hearing she her for me just feels weird!" Um. So you probably get that, right? And so yeah, just extend that to thinking there might be people for whom she and he and they all feel weird to them. Or perhaps just that ze, or fae, feels more correct to them. So yeah, that's the subjective answer, but we can also talk about some like, more, I guess objective reasons as well. One reason someone might choose neopronouns over they pronouns, um, is that they like that neopronouns keep the same sort of grammatical structure when you conjugate verbs with them, um, that "she" and "he" do so one of the big arguments that is bad, transphobic, bad, not even grammatically correct argument against they pronouns for people is that "it's plural, you can't use a plural pronoun for a singular person!" and again, I could rant about that all day, but the point here is,  hi Nerys, my cat just joined us, um, the point is that if you're someone who just wants to avoid having that argument nonstop, um, .or there's someone in your life who struggles with figuring out how to use they pronouns for you, well, maybe they can figure out ze, because instead of having to figure out how to say like, "Avery is cool, they are twenty six, "instead it's "ze is twenty six"  and for some people that's just easier to figure out. I don't personally understand why that's easier, um, but for some people it is. So hey, whatever. Um, For instance, I am thinking of um, a friend of mine, Chris Paige, who has a book out called OtherWise Christian, one, it's amazing, um, if you are a christian or a person of faith in general honestly, it's a great read, um, but they have a chapter where they talk about how their daughter had trouble figuring out they pronouns for Chris at first. Um and so their daughter finally was like "uh, can I just call you 'zey'?" Um, so basically this daughter invented a new neopronoun for chris to use! And so Chris was like, "oh yeah, you could call me zey, I like that." And so zey also uses zey pronouns on top of they pronouns. You can use either for them. um. So, another example of a neopronoun being invented to fill a need, Um, so yeah. The canon is not closed, you can make up new ones as you go, and an example of why someone might use zey pronouns or other neopronouns instead of they, um, to help someone in their life, um, get the, you know, get the language right or, or something like that. You know. So there's an example for you. um. Another, uh, more sort of theoretical idea,and this is one of the reasons I like having a set of neopronouns that I invite people to use for me, not that anyone ever does but ,I like it, I like having neopronouns, um, is because I like the theory that some people have for why using them, and that is they them pronouns are considered "gender neutral" pronouns, right? They're genderless, um, they're filling a need in English, in that um typically for um pronouns we've got uh you know, she pronouns are considered feminine, he pronouns are considered masculine, and so people think of "they" as something uh that is neither. Um, which means that even though they them pronouns, gender-neutral pronouns, are used to escape the binary, right? They're used by non-binary people a lot of the time?They still are connected to the binary, uh, the the binary gender system, because, and i'm gonna word this really badly, I think I pulled up something, um, so let me find it really quick, someone who words it better.Even our neutral pronouns have a basis in the binary system of using gender as the main identifier, because 'neutral' is generally used to mean 'on the same spectrum but between two poles.' Think about it.Every pronoun we use to speak about someone in the third person is gendered or derived from gender in some way. Now, you don't have to think about they pronouns that way, obviously like, I don't personally think of, um, them that way, but I do think it's an interesting idea for people who really want to get as far away from the gender binary, even the association with it, as possible, neopronouns might help them do that, and one reason is that neopronouns, they're whatever the user who uses them wants them to be.So this person says, saying you use eye m emself pronouns is like taking a linguistic step away from the gender system.You can still kind of trace the roots of some of these pronouns to the previous system,  for instance, ey em is clearly derived from they them, but they don't really lie on that male, neutral, female spectrum that, um, the, the other pronouns could be said to lie on. Um. Another person commented that, um, not for everyone, some people who use neopronouns do think of them as neutral, but others think of them as denoting some sort of gender.Um,so this person says, I specifically use a neopronoun because 'they' is vague, anonymous, and lacks gender affirmation, whereas 'ey' is more clearly indicative of my actual non-binary gender.So I think, I think neopronouns, when people use them in that way, are trying to do something that a lot of people don't get, and that is that, "non-binary" is almost a sort of umbrella term in itself, with tons and tons of genders within it. Non-binary doesn't always mean a person who is genderless or gender-neutral, it can  mean someone who is genderfull! So for me being non-binary doesn't mean I don't have a gender, it means simply that what my gender is, is my own thing, it's not female, it's not male, it's something else. And maybe ze pronouns sort of denote that gender better than any other pronouns could. Um. Again, so we're moving again back into sort of subjective territory, but that's, you know, gender is so subjective, it's gonna be subjective, um, it's, it's about what you feel, right? Um, as much as it is about sort of what's uh, going on logically. Um And that's true for everybody, not just non-binary people, not just trans people. And that brings us to the next question I was asked."Is there a link, in your research or experience, between the use of neopronouns and cultural acceptance of or resistance against they them as third-person gender-neutral pronouns." This is a huge question um that is the subject of a lot of discourse, and unfortunately a lot of infighting, within the transgender community, within the non-binary community, um, so I'm glad it was asked! So here's how I often hear the discourse going, um, when it's sort of going on within the community, instead of from cisgender people on the outside and all of that, so this is what happens sometimes, we'll start with, uh, leave they pronouns, leave neopronouns, to the side, let's just talk say, say there's a binary trans dude who is saying something like, oh my gosh, I wish non-binary people would stop pressing for, oh my gosh you two! Look at them. Okay, I gotta deal with this.Between that and the dog barking, I’m, this is not the best audio quality in, in a video, I’m sorry, everyone, but anyway I've heard like, say, so say there's a binary trans dude who uses he pronouns who is complaining that non-binary people need to shut up and pick one binary gender because they're making him, a legitimate trans person, which he is, I shouldn't put quotation marks, but he's com, he's saying he's legitimate and they're not legitimate they need to stop trying to force people to use they them pronouns for them, and all of that. Um. Which is, yeah, not fair! That's an example of internalized transphobia, someone who is themself transgender trying to police how other people experience gender outside of cisgender norms; um, it's not cool. And then, within the non-binary community, I’ve seen something similar,  which is that a non-binary person who only uses they pronouns will look at non-binary folks who are using neopronouns and complain and say, will you stop trying to make people call you ze zem or fae/ aer and just use they pronouns like the rest of us, you're making us look so illegitimate, you're making us look childish, you're making us look bad, and no one's gonna take my they pronouns seriously if they see you using your 'special' pronouns! And again, internalized transphobia, and a a feeling that we need to somehow be, lu you know, seem respectable enough it's all about respectability politics, what will make the cisgender people accept us and what won't. Well, the answer is that they're not, it doesn't matter how respectable we become, there are cisgender people, and there's the general society, that isn't gonna accept us no matter what we do, no matter how normal we try to be or acceptable or any of that. So why bother? Why try to assimilate? Why try to act normal? Why not just have fun with it, and why not come up with language that best fits us, that helps us explain to ourselves who we are and helps us sort of help other people understand and know us better.And have more expansive views of gender, that can help us have a better understanding of the beautiful diversity of humanity! Um, but yeah, so, to answer that question, yeah, sure, there are cisgender people who will say look, I could have gotten behind they pronouns, but all these other pronouns is just too much, um, that's, that's a them problem, that's their problem. Um. That's transphobic, and if these neopronouns didn't exist, those kinds of cisgender people, their acceptance, um, was conditional anyway, they would find something else to be transphobic about, they would find something else to be to refuse to accept and respect us about, so.And that brings me to the last question, um, and one that uh, is, is fun cause it means we get to practice some neopronouns! So here's the question, or I guess it's a comment? I need videos slash podcasts that will let me hear neopronouns, pronunciations, and in context. Most of the folks I know that like neopronouns are also okay with they or he or she, etc, so I shy away from neopronouns because I haven't heard them used very much, and have a disproportionate level of anxiety about mispronouncing or misusing them.This is a great, uh, topic to talk about, um, and it makes total sense to me, and I would agree with it, like if there's a new set of pronouns that i've never heard before, um, it's gonna take me a while to get used to them, right? Because it's brand new! It's like learning anything in language, um, whether it's your own or a new language, you have to practice in order to get used to it! And hearing other people using that language can help you get used to it, right? For instance, I’ve noticed that people in my life who have struggled with getting they pronouns correct for me, they start getting better at it once there's other people talking about me around them who are getting it right. So for instance my siblings were basically able to teach my parents how to get they pronouns correct, just by using them. So my siblings talking about Avery, me, and using they pronouns correctly, um, helped my parents who were just, you know, having conversations in the room it's not a formal lesson but it helps my parents get them right too.Because their brain starts absorbing it, having a context and examples for how to do it, right. And, and, um, the person who asked this question is so right, we don't have nearly as many examples for neopronouns um in popular media or just, you know, in our everyday lives as we're slowly getting for they pronouns. So gosh, if you all know of something, like a podcast or a story or something, where neopronouns are used, um, often, even if it's just one set, um let me know! Meanwhile, I will show y'all some websites where you can do that practice on your own. Um so the first website here is called practice with pronouns dot com. And what you do is you pick, um, from this set of pronouns, and you know, they've got she, they've got he, they've got they, so yeah, if you want to practice they as well, this is a place you can do it, but they also have some neopronouns, for instance say you want to practice ey em, which is a fairly common one, so you, you say, start practicing and, um, you have to fill in the blank, so ey lost eir time turner three hours from now.L o l!Also these questions, these sentences tend to be really goofy and funny which is nice, um. So that's one website. And then another one that I really like and is it's created more for trans and gender questioning people to sort of explore pronouns for themselves but you can absolutely also use it to get used to a friend's pronouns.Um, so it's called pronoun dressing room, and you pick your pronoun...so you put in, you fill it in here. So name, Avery, subject ze.um so yeah, you fill this out, and then you pick a text that you want, you want to read. Hello. Today I met a person who goes by Avery. Ze has a wonderful personality. That smile of zirs really makes me happy. I could talk to zem all day, although ze doesn't talk about zemself much. I wonder if zir day has been wonderful. I hope so! So yeah, that's the pronoun dressing room. And I'm gonna do a separate video for this person who asked for examples of people just reading um normal books or whatever, you're just reading things that use neopronouns, I'll do a separate video where I do that, because I don't know such a thing, but in the meantime, um, Im gonna address the other part, which is, they say they get really anxious about getting pronunciation right. Uh. That is so real, um, because here's the thing about neopronouns, like I said, there's no canon, right? There's, there's no one set of rules for how to use neopronouns, each person who uses them might have a different way of um pronouncing them. And there's some ways that are more common, but you know, it can change. So, it's totally appropriate, if someone tells you like, hi, I use ze pronouns, um, and you don't know how to use those it's totally appropriate to ask them, hey um, I just, I would you mind using your pronouns in a sentence for me so I can hear how they're used. Um. I bet the person would be more than happy. Um. So here, I'll include a link to this little chart, it's just neopronouns explained, it has some examples and then it says, don't panic over pronunciation. While there are common ways to pronounce these pronouns, there are many variations, so it is best to ask. For example, hey there, Taylor, I noticed the pronoun x e on your name tag and I wanted to make sure that I am pronouncing it right. Can you tell me how to pronounce it.Um so yeah, that's totally appropriate to ask people, um, if you want to know the general pronunciations, in the next video I'll go through some of the really common pronouns and how they're most commonly pronounced, but yeah, feel free to ask people how they would pronounce them. So yeah, those are websites and tools, um and I'll link more websites and tools that you can use to practice neopronouns, um and learn how to say them and learn how to use them and all of that, so that you can be a better ally, whatever, however you want to be more respectful, I don't, I don't even know it's, if it's about allyship it's just being a basic decent human being, right, to respect people's pronouns. So I hope this helped! And yeah I'm gonna have another video where I just read through, um, so that you can hear how to pronounce some of these and um just get, get to see them used in a sentence and hear them, and hopefully that'll help you absorb it the more often you hear it, so, yeah!