Hi! Hey! It is finally time to talk about Luke fourteen, the parable of the banquet!This video is coming to y'all a lot later than I thought it would, and that's because of a good old thing called executive dysfunction, which is a sort of brain issue that a lot of people who are autistic or who have A D H D or have various mental illnesses and probably a bunch of other stuff.Um.It's something that affects us where the part of our brain that sort of manages, um, task initiation and completion has some issues and so for me the idea of putting this video together,even though it's like my favorite thing in the world to talk about disability theology, and I was so excited to make this video, the part of my brain whose job it was to actually start the video and plan what the video would look like just didn't want to get going! So it's been a while, but I finally realized that what was sort of blocking my brain from finally starting this topic is the fact that I planned on trying to keep a, you know, do a short video, keep it under ten minutes.But meanwhile, I have compiled information that could fill hours and hours of video.I've read so many books and articles and stuff, and done a lot of thinking, and translated the Greek, and, so much information, how on earth was I gonna, you know, smoosh it all down into ten minutes?What I finally decided to do was let go of this idea that I need to keep it really short and conciseand instead make a video that's as long as I want it to be first, where I just talk as long as I wantwithout worrying about the time.And then in a little while I'll make a more compact video for those of you who don't want to sit through thirty minutes of me diving really deep into the passage, and you really only are here for the main points of why Luke fourteen is important to disability theology, I'll make a video for y'all later, but for now this is for those of you who, like me, love diving into the nitty-gritty details or who just enjoy watching someone infodump.But I do think if you do stick around and watch this whole thing, you're gonna get, you're, you're really gonna get to know this passage of the Gospel of Luke.And learn some very important and exciting things about Jesus's message to people with disabilities.So to get started, let's actually, you know, read the passage I'm talking about today!I'll read my own translation, because y'all can find other translations online easy.Oh! And to sort of set the background for what's going on in Luke fourteen, We are actually looking specifically at verses twelve to twenty four, so the start of Luke fourteen is, Jesus gets invited to go eat at the house of a Pharisee.So he comes and he watches as all the people who are also at this meal with him and this Pharisee host are sort of all fighting to get the best seats at the table; and Jesus says his famous thing about how, like, well, you know, when you're invited to sit at a table, you should pick the lowliest seat, because then if you're told, "Oh hey, you should actually be sitting at a better seat," you'll be like super cool. But if you choose a really good seat and then you're told, "actually, you should be sitting a little lower," you're gonna be super embarrassed.So Jesus just said that thing, and so I think that introduces the theme of the passage we are going to read, which is this idea that in Jesus's sort of upside down vision for the world or the kingdom of God, social norms and the status quo are going to be turned completely on their head.Um, the last will be first and those who are exalted will be humbled and all of that.So now with that context, let's dive in!A certain man was making a huge supper, and he invited many. He sent out his slave at the hour of the supper to say to the ones invited:"Come! for now everything is ready."But they all planned as one to make excuses.The first one said to him:"A field have I bought, and I have need to go out to see it. Please, have me excused."Another one said:"five yokes of oxen have I bought, and I am going out to test them. Please have me excused."The third one said:"A woman have I wed, and therefore...I am not able to come."So after returning, the slave reported these things to his master.Then the infuriated head of the household said to his slave:"Go out! quickly, into the roads and alleys of the city, and lead back here the poor ones and disabled ones and blind ones and impaired ones."And the slave said:"Master, it has happened as you commanded, and still there is room!"So the master said to the slave: "Go out further, into the highways and hedges, and make them come, so that my household may be filled to the brim.For I say to you that no one of those men who were invited will taste of my supper."So yeah, that's the passage we're talking about today. But before we dive into it I want to bring up a different passage of scripture that's related to it. Um, so, in case you're not aware, there are four Gospels in the Bible and a lot of times you'll have a story told in, say, the Gospel of Mark that the Gospel of Matthew also tells, but a little bit differently.And maybe Luke also tells it a little bit differently but then John doesn't mention it at all. So Luke fourteen, this parable of the banquet, doesn't happen in the Gospel of Mark, doesn't happen in the Gospel of John, but people tend to say that: "oh, well, it happens in Matthew twenty two as well.There's a similar version, this idea of a parable of a big banquet happens in Matthew as well."But the way it's told in Matthew is actually quite different, so different in fact that I personally would actually consider them to be different parables, because they're telling completely different themes, they have different messages. And so I just wanted to bring up this Matthew version of the parable just for fun, for me, um, to say it actually feels very different to me, and I think if we look at the differences it helps us figure out a little bit more about what Luke fourteen is saying. So in Matthew twenty two, again we have this idea of a host telling his slave, his servant, to go out and get all these people to come to his party. But a couple little differences off the bat:In Matthew's version, this host is explicitly said to be a king, and the banquet he's preparing is a wedding feast for his son. And then things start getting really different once the servant goes around to invite everyone to the party.First of all, the king sends out multiple slaves or servants, and they, um, some of them get murdered. So the people who were invited up and kill the servants, so that's very different! Um, and so is the fact that the king, in response to this murder, sends out armies to go and kill the people who were invited who killed his servants. And then it gets even weirder, believe it or not, once the party has begun. The king tells the slave, like in Luke, he says:"Okay then, just go out into the street and gather up whomever you can find to come to my party."Um, a key difference for us is that in Matthew, the fact that these people are disabled or poor is not explicitly stated.It's just said, "Oh they're just people on the street," that could be anyone.They could be poor, they could have disabilities, or they could be middle class, wealthy, abled,we don't know in the book of Matthew. But yeah, once they all get to the party, the king's walking around saying hi to everyone and,oh my gosh, he notices that somebody didn't show up in the proper wedding garment.He's not dressed to code.And the host gets really really angry about this.He asks the guy why the heck he's dressed so poorly, and the guy is speechless. He says nothing. Um, so the King has him tied up and thrown out into the streets, "where there will be gnashing of teeth."Um, so yeah. It gets very over the top very fast. The host in Matthew twenty two is very, um, he seems a little bit arbitrary, a bit capricious, he's like:"Oh yes, everyone should come in, oh but if you're not dressed right, get, get out of here!"T, so to me, in this parable in Matthew, people assume that, "Oh, the king who's holding this banquet must be God, right?" Um.The king is God and the banquet, this wedding feast, is God's kingdom, is heaven;and the son is probably Jesus, and so on. I disagree and I actually, my pastor at my church, she did a sermon on this last year, and she's the one who brought this idea to me, that you know, there's no need to believe or assume that the king in Matthew twenty two is God!Um, because God is not a capricious sort of controlling, violent person, and that doesn't fit the host that we see in Luke fourteen at all.So what my pastor suggested, she said that in Matthew twenty two, this king isn't God!Instead, um, the character who's most godly might be the person who showed up in the wrong wedding attire.Um, that, just like the king yells at this person and this person doesn't reply and so he gets tied up and thrown out, will be a parallel in a few chapters later on in Matthew, in, in the Gospel of Matthew, we have Jesus getting yelled at by Pilate.Pilate asks, like, demands to know some things of Jesus and Jesus remains silent. And so Pilate, you know, has him arrested and sentenced to death.So yeah, in Matthew we don't have to see this host as God.Meanwhile in Luke fourteen, we have a very different story.We don't have any of this random violence! Um, or the host blowing up and yelling at the people who do come.Instead we have a host, a host who seems to be very generous and happy just to have his house filled with the people that he has the servant gather.And I would assume since, you know, they're poor and they're beggars, they're probably not coming super well-dressed , there's none of that, that strange anger. So yeah, I just wanted to bring this up because I think it's fun to reimagine parables, um, with different characters representing different people; we don't always have to assume that the main character in a parable is God or Jesus.Sometimes it's a human like in Matthew twenty two, that's a very human kingwho's being sort of capricious and violent and unforgiving. Meanwhile in Luke fourteen, supposedly the same parable but a different version, but in my opinion a quite different parable, in Luke fourteen, I do read, um, the host of this banquet as being God.And so do all the interpreters that I looked at, all the, all the scholars I read and stuffalso agreed that this host is God who's holding this party.But I do think there are limits to a parable. So once we dive into what this parable is saying, first, let's get a little more context that will help us understand this parable, um, in Luke fourteen.The first thing to say is, um, what is a banquet in the time, um, in the time and culture of Jesus?From some of the scholars I read I learned that, um, in Jesus's time and place, remember, he is a Palestinian Jew, so he's living in a Jewish society with its own history and culture, but it's heavily influenced by Hellenism, by Greco-Roman culture, because they are currently being occupied by the Roman Empire. And so the culture of Rome is also seeping into Jesus's life. And so we can look at, um, what the Jewish community back then would have thought of about banquets, and what the Greco-Roman idea of banquets was. So I found less about Jewish banquets, in one book I read called Unexpected Guests at God's Banquet, um, the author says that Jesus's idea of the banquet is borrowed from his Jewish heritage, that this metaphor of the banqueting table would be used, um, as sort of a vision ofa messianic banquet in which God is the host and all the prophets are guests, andso the banquet um, was and is a reflection of God's cosmos.What I found more info on was the idea of a Greco-Roman banquet. My favorite thing I read was by Louise.Louise Gosbell. I might be saying her name wrong. Gos Bell? Oh, I'll link, you know, you'll see how to spell it. Who, in her article "Reconsidering the Parable of the Banquet," says, she brings up the idea of the symposium in Greco-Roman culture.So the first thing she mentions, and a lot of other people I read mention, is that a banquet was the place where social bonds are strengthened, and so it's a big big violation of friendship to turn down an invitation without a really good excuse. And she also, um, sees that that bit in the first half of Luke fourteen, where all the people invited to the party Jesus is at are sort of vying for the best place at the table, she, um, she draws some information from some Greco, Greek and Roman texts about that being a thing that kind of would get out of hand at a symposium, at one of these Greek or Roman banquets.She says that associated with the kind of table that would be used at a symposium, which would be a table that is pi shaped, aka the Greek letter pi, it was called the triclinium, and associated with it was a ranking system so that each position was assigned a place and each person present knew their rank and position in relation to each of the guests who were present.Plutarch in Table Talk shares a little story about how "whenever an especially distinguished guest arrived late and discovered that no place worthy of honor remained at the table, he was insulted and left angrily.“So yeah, this idea of finding the right seat that fits the honor you deserve based on your social status was a big deal in this time and place, um, so it makes sense that the people at this party Jesus is at are sort of vying for the best place at the table.They want their fellow human beings to recognize how cool they are and how important they are in society, whereas Jesus is sort of nudging them like:"Hey, maybe your status in the eyes of society is not what's important; in fact, maybe it's the people that we as a society tend to think of as having no honor, no place at the table, maybe it's those people who really deserve the places of honor once everything's turned on its head in the Kingdom of God."Another really interesting and kind of really quite disturbing thing about these Greco-Roman symposia, um, would be that people with disabilities would be put on display at these banquets.And, they're, uh, I don't know that there's any evidence that a Greco-Roman influenced banquet in Jesus's region would mimic this thing that was happening in Rome, but it still,it's sort of in the culture, this idea that people with disabilities can be gawked at, that they are a spectacle or they should be there to entertain you.And so instead of having a place at the table, being there as guests, if there was anyone with a disability present at a symposium, a banquet, it's probably to be mocked and to make jokes for the entertainment of the people.And so we see a reversal happening in this parable in Luke, where instead of being, um, there, um, as objects to be laughed at or people to provide entertainment for the actual guests, instead we see the people with disabilities as being the guests, the ones invited and welcomed in and desperately desired, um, at this banquet.So that's pretty cool. All righty. Now that we have some of that cultural context under our belts, let's talk about the most common interpretations of this parable.Um, when people who read it are trying to figure out what the point of the parable is, the most popular interpretation is that so those three guys that got invited and made excuses and said:"no thanks, I'm not coming,"Those three men are usually interpreted as standing in for the Jewish community, who were God's original chosen people but said no to Jesus and so they're not invited anymore.Meanwhile, the poor and disabled people who are then invited and brought into the party are, of course, the Gentiles, those non-Jewish people who eventually say yes to Jesus, now they are welcomed in, they're the new partiers. Um, there's a lot of issues with this interpretation!Humongous anti semitism alert for one thing, because when we say:"Oh, so Jewish people were the original ones invited but they all said no because they're so,they just are so silly, they didn't know what they were missing out on" or whatever,that's obviously, that's anti semitic.They are practitioners of a rich and vital faith in its own right, and there's this, this implication that God's covenant with the Jewish people has been retracted, right?God's invitation to the Jewish people to participate in community with God is nowretracted, which is not true! They still have a covenant with God; they still have a community with God. God still has this sort of special relationship with the Jewish people.Um. So it's important to remember that when we're interpreting our parables in our Christian texts.Another really big issue with assuming that we the Christians are the ones who, um, were outcast and are now invited in is that, one, a lot of times in our present day Christians are not the outsiders, we're not the disenfranchised outcasts, we're often, and for instance in the United States where I live, we are the ones with a lot of privilege, and so just kind of reading the parable and being like, "Oh, yes, of course we're the poor excluded people, oh man, we're always so persecuted but God loves us!" is just,It's inaccurate and it sort of feeds this persecution complex that leads us to assume that we can never be the ones who have the power and are abusing power and stuff, so that's messed up.It also, if we interpret this parable in this way, as Louise Gosbell says, she says that the interpretation of the three dudes who say "no" being the Jewish community and all the poor people being invited in are the new Gentile Christian community, she says that this interpretation:"negates any further obligation to seek out those who are still truly marginalized within our own communities."So basically if you read this parable as being like, "Oh yes, all this stuff happened in the past;we are the ones who were invited in and we're living into that right now", um, it doesn't give us anything to live in to, anything to strive for in the present!And the whole point of a parable is that it should challenge the listeners, it should have challenged the ones who were listening to Jesus as he spoke on that day, and it should challenge us now today, probably in a in a different way, right?But, there should be a lesson that we can draw from this parable too. A challenge for us as well. And so instead of assuming that we are the outcast ones, the disabled and poor people, um, we might reinterpret, you know, we might explore this parable through different lenses.We might say, "Okay, well, what what might it mean if I, instead of being the one whowas then invited in and said yes and came and partied, what if I'm one of the three original people who got invited and I just make an excuse, and say I don't have the time? What does the parable challenge me to do then?Or what if I am the servant whom God calls to go out and invite all these outcasts and people that I might think aren't really worthy to be dining at this banquet, but God's telling me:'You gotta go out there and gather them in.' What is the challenge in the parable for me then?" So say we do say, "Okay well, what if I do, this time around, want to read the parable in the lens of, I am the person who is poor or disabled who is being invited in," what does that challenge us, how does that challenge us too?If those Christians who are abled and reading this text, or who are not poor and are reading this text, are being asked to imagine themselves in the shoes of people with disabilities and people who are completely impoverished, should that humanize such people? You know, in a, those people who are not just metaphorically poor but are actually, you know,poor in our own societies, um, we should be compelled to humanize them, right?If we're supposed to be in their shoes. Um, and we should reach out to them; they are our kin, they are our community. Yeah. Um, that's some stuff about interpreting the parable that I think is important food for thought. And I mentioned before that when we talk about parables there's always limitations to them.One is that when Jesus originally told the parable it was to a very different audience from the, from the audience that listens to the parable today, and so there's always this sort of challenge of: how do we balance the idea of like, what part's metaphor and which part is literally true? It's hard to, it's always hard to wrestle that out. One thing I would challenge when you're listening to this parable is the idea that, um, in the Kingdom of God, things are exactly like this parable, where a host has some people who were invited first, and then a bunch of other people who are not afterthoughts or second thoughts, but sort of , he's des, he's just desperate to fill his table; he's just desperate to get this party really going, so then he's like, Oh yes yes yes of course, bring in all these people who were not originally invited." It's good when we're sort of reimagining the parable and really, like, um, letting it dwell within us, and we're really chewing on this parable, it's cool to sort of think:"Well is the Kingdom of God like that, where some people were invited first and then some are more like, sort of just desperate afterthoughts?" Or maybe everyone's sort of invited "first" but different people hear the call different ways, or some people assume that they're not among the ones invited and then it turns out they actually are invited too! So they're not responding until this servant of God goes directly to them and says:"Hey, yes, you too! You're one of the people invited to this banquet! Sorry that wasn't clear at first, but get, come on in!" Again I have that author who has a cool point of view for, um, this idea of reimagining the parable, thinking of it in terms of what the original audience would hear.So I'm just gonna read her quote directly cuz she says it better than I can paraphrase:“As Jesus watched the leaders posture for places at the table, he shared the parable of the great banquet. The audience are those who are prestigious and powerful. Jesus knows this and masterfully tells the story in a way that they are able to follow to the end. He begins with their assumption that the noble and powerful will first be invited. All they had to do was look around the room and congratulate one another on making the cut! Jesus continues to unfold the parable, revealing it was not they who will sit in places of honor at the banquet of the king, but those who were crippled, lame, and blind. The message is clear. The roles have been reversed."So, yeah.Instead of reading this parable as sort of a, a literal like, you can translate it directly and literally into what the Kingdom of Heaven will be like, with this idea of:"oh yes these people were first and then these people were invited second,"Instead it's, um, you can imagine it as Jesus telling the parable in a way that will fit his original audience's expectations and be able to shock them a bit, you know?Really turn their expectations on their head, startle them and sort of challenge them to think in a new way.Um, which I think it's pretty cool and makes more sense to me because, you know, throughout scripture we see a God who doesn't invite the outcasts of the world as an afterthought, but often instead goes to those outcasts first and makes them the recipients of divine blessing and the agents of divine blessing;they're not an afterthought, these outcasts, um, in most of Scripture;they are the ones who are first, the ones that the world calls last are the ones that God calls first.Whew! Okay. So, we've been talking for a while now and we haven't even really talked about the key takeaways for this parable! Um, so, we've got context for the parable, different ways of interpreting the parable, let's talk about what Jesus was really trying to say with the parable.So, if you're looking at this parable through a disability theology lens, the most obvious message that we see in this passage in Luke, um, is the very exciting idea that people with disabilities are welcome in the kingdom of God just as they are!There's nothing in this parable about the people with disabilities having to get "fixed" or "cured" or "healed" or however you want to say it; they don't have to assimilate to abled norms in order to be at this banquet. They come just as they are. And to mention that, the, the "different version" of this parable back in Matthew twenty two like I said before, if we remember in Matthew twenty two, um, at that human banquet where a human king yells at a dude for being dressed wrong, that's sort of the opposite idea to me, right?In, in, this human king is saying you have to look just right, you have to look like you belong here, or you're getting tied up and kicked out.Meanwhile, in this Luke fourteen banquet where we can interpret God as being the host,, um, there's , that idea is not here; you don't have to look a certain way, or act a certain way, or be a certain way in order to be welcome at the table.God is just happy and delighted to have you there! People with disabilities are welcome in the community of God just as they are. I've talked about that already in two other videos but it is such, such a key point.In the book The Enabled Life, which is by Roy McCloughry, it's really good, he describes this idea in this way:"They come as they are. They do not have to be healed in order to be the honored guests. This is a picture of disabled people not as weak and helpless but as preferable to those who claim to be too important to turn up. The world of ambition and self-importance is subverted by the world of apparent weakness.This passage is a shot across the bows for those who believe that the ultimate expression of the kingdom of God in the New World will be composed of the normal or even successful people; God's preference may be so much more radical than that."The other really really really key takeaway for this parable is that this banquet image should be something that we strive for in the here and now. It's not just something to look forward to in heaven, in the future, we need to take this idea that we see in this parable, where people with disabilities, people who are poor, people who are outcasts in our society aren't just allowed to come in and sit at the table, but get a place of honor at the table, um, are really really really desired, um, at our table.Um, that's something we need now. We are called by God to do whatever we can to make this parable true in our own communities today, instead of just saying:"Oh hey, look, this will be nice in the future!" Um, so that gives me some really big questions to ask.One of the big ones, and it's going to help us sort of dig into some of the characters in this parable, the big question is, if our own "banquet tables," our own faith communities, don't look like God's banquet table, can we claim to represent the kingdom of God on earth? Can we claim to be carrying out God's will?How can the church claim that, um, if we don't even look like the kingdom of God as described in the Gospels, if instead of making room and really wanting people with disabilities to be in our communities, we instead keep them out by having inaccessible spaces that they can't physically get into or stay in, or we just make things sort of, you know, we leave them in a corner, leave them in the back, um, and we never invite them to share their gifts?Can we really claim to be living into the kingdom of God?Um, and another big question is, if people that we think are beneath us somehow are the ones who will join us at the banquet table, and perhaps even get better spots at the table than we do, will we still say "yes" to God's invitation? Or are we truly supposed to see ourselves in the three men who make excuses and say they can't come?So with that question in mind, let's really dig into what's going on in the first half of this parable, where we have these three guys who got invited and make excuses not to come.So the first thing to know: when the story says that, you know, the, the banquet is ready and the master says to his slave, "all right, go and tell everyone to come, call them in," we should know that culturally, these people would have been invited previously. These guys who make excuses and say they can't come aren't doing so because they're being put on the spot; they knew the party was coming. What would have happened is, um, I don't know the exact timeframe but let's say a week before the party, this host has already sent out invitations and these men have said:"Yeah, I'll be there!" and then the day of comes, and they, that's when they make the excuse:"Actually I'm not gonna be there."And like I mentioned before, that is a huge, huge violation of friendship and trust.It's a big no-no; they are, they're really dishonoring the host by turning down an invitationthat they had originally said yes to. So I just, I was really curious about what made them say yes and then, when the day actually comes, say no?My Common English Bible has footnotes, and the footnote it has for these verses is to say that these guys are making phony excuses, that this idea that:"Oh, I just bought a field and I have to go check it out; oh I just bought some oxen and I have to go test to them out;" according to this footnote, that's not something you'd have to do. Like, you wouldn't have bought the land without already having checked it out; you wouldn't have bought these oxen without already having tested them. So it sounds, basically the, whoever wrote this footnote, is like, "Sounds fake but okay!" And same with the guy who just got married, he wouldn't have said yes to the invitation if he knew that he was going to get married on that day!That same C E B, Common English Bible footnote suggests that maybe the host has lost status in between the time that he sent the original invitation and the day of, when he says, "Oh guys, it's time, it's ready."Maybe he lost some status and they don't want to come anymore. So yeah, what could, what could it be that makes them wary to come?Another article I read, um, has this idea, this prob , this proposal that, so, this guy named Palmer says that that the excuses these guys make are the same situations permitted by law "in order to be absented from active military service." So basically, these guys are making the same kind of excuses they would make in order to get out military service. So to Palmer, there is "a stinging jibe at the host in the excuses of the invited guests. To plead an excuse that would exempt you from battle implies that the catering is more exciting than reliable." So this idea that they don't want to come because there's something about this host and the way he holds ban banquets that seems kind of wild, or dangerous even, to them.And I'm really, I'm, I don't know if I agree with Palmer exactly, but I am very intrigued by this idea that suddenly this banquet is too dangerous for these guys to attend.Maybe somehow they know that the host plans on inviting other people to the partythat are disabled, that are impoverished, that are completely beneath them socially. Maybe they somehow know that that's this host's plan all along , maybe it's not sort of an afterthought or an act of desperation but something they know he's planning to do.One of the parts in the Greek of this passage that I think, um, supports this idea is:In verse 18, the way the, the English is usually translated is just like, "but they all alike made excuses" or whatever; "they all alike began to make excuses."Whereas if you look in the Greek, there's a verb that's there that's not usually translated:it's literally something like "but they all ruled as one to make excuses."To me this idea makes me think that maybe before the day of the banquet they all gathered together to talk and sort of gossip among each other and be like:"Did you say yes to going to that party?" "Yeah, yeah I did, I did say yes to going to that party but I really don't want to go now."That something has happened, right? That this host is no longer someone we want to associate with and so they all agree as one, they plan together and they rule as one to make excuses.They all join together to come up with different excuses so that they don't have to come, even though they originally said yes. And so there's this idea that this party is going to be dangerous to their social status, because if they are seen at this party where there's a bunch of poor people, oof! There goes their status!So they don't want to come anymore, especially if they can't even be guaranteed to be given a place of honor that's higher up than these poor people's place at the table!So that's sort of my thought on why they made these excuses.Tell me what you think.But yeah, I think it's definitely open to interpretation, but I think when we imagine things this way it can sort of challenge us to say, again, to ask that question again: If we knew a certain person or group of people was going to be in heaven, was going to be at the table of God, would, like, what group or person would be there that would make us say:"actually I'm gonna have to decline this one."Okay. So now we've dug a little bit into the possible motives of these excuse makers; now let's talk about who the master's slave might be and who exactly these poor and disabled people are.A good number of the interpreters I saw are saying that this servant of the master represents Jesus; but others, and I tend to lean more towards them, are saying that actually, the servant represents, um, us. Not always, again, I think it's great to read through a parable in several different ways and imagine yourself in the shoes of different characters in it, but one of the big ways for me with this parable is to imagine myself in the shoes of the servant or slave who's running around inviting all these people. Um, because when we think about how to enact this parable in our own lives, I would be playing the role of the servant who's running around trying to get these people to come in to the banquet, who's saying: "Hey yes! You're invited! Yes, you!You possibly have felt like you've been excluded before because we weren't doing it right, there were things that were making you not welcome at the table.Well I'm here, God has sent me to tell you that there is room for you at this table and we need you here, we want you here."And speaking of the idea of, we really want and need these outcasts to be at the banquet,that brings me to one last word study, don't worry, I'm only going to make you look at the Greek one more time.In, um, verse twenty two of Luke fourteen, it says that, um, the way I translated it is, "go out into the highways and the hedges and make them come." But the verb "make" is a lot more forceful , that's more like, "go out and force them to come," "compel them to come," or just "urge them to come." It's this pretty strong verb in most of its uses in the Bible , which is really interesting because this idea of compulsion, of sort of forcing people to participate in God's communities, is not present in many places in the Bible. In the New Testament there's only two examples of this kind of forcefulness: Here in Luke fourteen twenty three there's this command of compelling people to come in, and then in Mark six forty five and its parallel Matthew fourteen twenty two, Jesus "forces" his disciples to get on a boat and leave the crowds.Those are sort of the only times when this idea of forcing someone to do something happens in this way in the Bible. So I think it's kind of interesting that it occurs here, and to me is this idea that this host is truly desperate for these people to come in. He's, he's basically telling his servant: "Go out there and tell them to come and do not take no for an answer!"I don't, I don't think that this servant is literally gonna like force people to come if they really don't want to, but he is supposed to sort of to do whatever he has to do to get them to come to this party because the host so desperately wants his banquet to be a really lively one, to be full of people.And, um, I think when we look at what that means for us today in our own communities, it shows how important it is for us to reach out to the outcasts of society, especially those who are homeless, who are poor, who are disabled, and say:"We really need you here; we cannot have this party without you."Which I think is so different from how we usually view people with disabilities.Normally we just kind of let them be there and we see how we can help them without thinking about the many ways that they can, they can help us, they can participate, how they are vital to what it means to live into God's kingdom.And yeah, so, I'll give a few more passages from the book Unexpected Guests at God's Banquetthat really drives this idea home that, um, the table in this parable is "big enough for all who were invited to sit at it and enjoy the meal.There is no sense that the table was overly crowded, with the need to move over to make an extra place for another person; in fact, there was so much space left over that the servant was sent out a second time to bring in more people.This is an important point: If the banquet table is a metaphor for the Kingdom of God, then people with disabilities have a place that already exists at the table. People with disabling conditions are not to be kept out of congregational life. They are to be warmly received."So when we compare that to how those first people invited, those guys who made excuses and said they couldn't come, turn down the invitation, another sort of suggestion for why they said no is that they didn't realize that this was the most important thing they could be doing.They're so busy, you know, they want to go work, they want to check out their oxen and their fields and their wife, um, but that's not the most important thing they could be doing right at that moment.The most important thing they could do, says this book, um, is to enjoy a meal together."They did not understand that God extended the invitation because God enjoyed who they are, not because of what they do or what they own. In the life of the Church, merely being in the presence of God may be truly threatening for some members of the Banquet Feast on earth. But this may be the prophetic message, the prophetic stance of many people with disabling conditions that renders the rest of us silent. This may be the correct position before the presence of God: merely being ourselves. Ultimately, God values human creation not because of what human beings can do but because they are created in the image of God, the Imago Dei.Whew! This has gotten long, and I'm kind of tired of talking, and there's still a lot more that I want to talk about; but I think I'll make it a separate video.Most of it is about, um, just digging in even more to what vision of the kingdom of God we get in this passage and in some other passages of the Bible, um, and to talk about a really cool idea that I read about, about how instead of erasing disabilities in heaven they will be redeemed instead.There will be a redemption of disability. For now, I'm just going to close with a poem that I wrote, so, I think a year ago, that was sort of inspired by this parable of the banquet. I wrote it at that time when, you know, the whole straw ban thing was going on, where it suddenly was really popular to get rid of plastic straws, and a lot of people in the disability community spoke out against that saying:"first of all, plastic straws are not the biggest waste issue we have; and second of all, a lot of people with disabilities need straws to survive. That's the only way they can take in sustenance, and so could you maybe...not stop providing them with ways to survive?" But yeah, so this is my poem, called "Unity.""there will be straws at that banquet And all the bread will be gluten free.And no one will go away hungry because there was no food that fit their dietary needs.And the table will be high enough for wheelchairs to slide easily beneath it And no one will gawk it those of us who have trouble sitting still so long and stand instead and stomp our feet.And no one will grab our flapping wrists and hiss "quiet hands!"God, I cannot wait to never hear that hateful phrase again.And Jesus, there you will be, not at the head of the table, but in the middle of things.Breaking bread with hands that struggle a little, impeded by the damage done to your fine motor skills when the nails pierced your wrists.And with a wheelchair stationed behind you that friends can push you in when the chronic pain in your nail damaged feet becomes too much.And we will all share in the lopsided chunks of gluten free bread that is your body or the cups of juice with straws that is your blood.And there will be laughter, oh, there will be laughter.Loud and carefree.Communicated through A A C or sign language or smiling mouths, as we finally learn what it means to be truly One:United, not in spite of but through diversity."