7 YEARS POST-OP (MY CHEST IS ACTUALLY DIFFERENT)(1080p)https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BRCzAkmdYwUHey everybody, it is me, Chaseypoo, and today's a very exciting day. You know why? Because today my titties are seven years old. So why am I even making this video with a shirt on. Much better. I gotta do the hat though because my hair is just it's my I got quarantine hair. Okay, we all know what that means. We all quarantine hair right now. I'm gonna cut it. I don't know. Listen Today is May thirtieth twentytwenty, which means that as of 4pm, no 4pm no it was like I think I had surgery at like one. So like literally exactly the time that I'm filming this video is when the titty like got sliced off and flew away. So I don't know. Let me just show you my chest and when you talk about it, you know. So I talked about this and like all of my like latest videos related to my chest like last year and probably five years that things don't like really change a lot after a Couple of years and it kind of just all stays the same. However, this year I actually have something new to report. So let me just give you like a little tour here. I had my surgery with Dr. Garimony in Florida. My surgery at the time, I believe was five thousand seven hundred U S D. And there you go. Let me give you a little close up of the nipple, you know, I got to do this every year you gotta document it. This is the good nip, look how beautiful this is, never in my life have I seen a nipple so good. And it even oh pokes out. And then you got the not so great nip, but it's still you know, it's still there. That's fine. So what I actually want to talk about is my scars. So I'm kind of turning down the light and turning it up just so you can see that there is a difference in terms of like the scar color right now what it looks like on the viewfinder is very accurate to what it looks like. So if you look at pictures from before, like maybe last year, you'll see that my scars are pretty similar to my scars from five years and four years and stuff like that. However, this year, it's different because they're fading. And to me that is that is a shock. All right, and I will tell you what this is attributed to. So this is obviously not a sponsored video, I am simply going to tell you about a product that I actually sell and that I make with Sierra's mom. And I just kind of want to bring it out again just to explain to you something, so it's called flattened flawless. And it is scar cream. And I've talked about how Yes, of course, even if you've had surgery a year ago, five years ago, you can use this cream. And to me, it doesn't mean that your scars are going to fade 100% it did make mine a little bit lighter. And I was like yo this actually works. This is amazing. Like this formulation is fantastic. And it also like the biggest thing for me is that it makes it soft. So my scars I'm lucky are actually very soft and then with this extra soften so now what I actually noticed in the last two weeks, is every night before I go to bed, I rub my nipples, I rub my scar and I put some cream on it just you know, because I want them to maybe not fade a lot, but I would like a little of the redness to kind of go away like, here's kind of dark. Now here's the thing, okay? If I look at videos of me, six years, whatever, my scars to me, okay, maybe not to you, but to me, they actually look different. They look like they have gotten lighter in places that I didn't think they would. So originally, my scars have always been light right here, this little scar here, you barely barely can see it. And I've been very lucky. However, it seems that now the scar has started to fade underneath here. So let me try to really bring that close up so you can really So do you see what I'm talking about here? That this here has always been like white and fady of scar but right here you see that right? That that was not there before I noticed and this here has now almost become part of like my skin tone. This part here is still pretty red. Maybe it'll focus enough on it, maybe it's just that's how my scar is going to end up forever. But I also want to just talk about how this here just this little part has also always been kind of white, but then the rest has been red. However, no joke and I know that it looks like maybe it's the lighting maybe it's that but even if I turn the light off like this is a glare but you can still see that it has absolutely started to right underneath you see that underneath has started to fade. That's amazing. Like after seven years my titties are still doing Oh my god, it's Demonetize me. Anyways, that's all I want to say. I will post some comparison pictures of course on Instagram so you can check out the titty before and after. And yeah, I feel better about my chest. I feel like I I have gained a lot of weight in the last two, three years and I struggle with that and To be completely honest, and I look man, I've been going through a lot of stuff but for some reason, before all of this, I used to be self conscious about showing my chest and going to the pool even when I was like, like, when I thought I was like the most athletic thin, like I was in great shape because I did a lot of running and stuff like that. I was still so conscious about my chest, which is weird because now like tables have turned three, four years later, I'm like, Fuck, I'm gonna take my shirt off. Of course, men take my shirt off like Hello, I Why would I not take my shirt off? If you don't like my chest? That sucks for you. I didn't have it for you. Which brings me to one last point. Not too long ago either on my Instagram or on my YouTube somebody said those are the ugliest scars I've ever seen. What kind of doctor mutilated your chest and I was like, What the hell are you talking about? Like this person apparently had seen what double incision of like top surgery looks like and said that my surgery was bad. Not that I'm saying my surgery is better or good. My Sir, I'm happy with my results. I am absolute look at this. I am absolute This is what I wanted. This is what I got, and seven years, and it's still one of the best decisions I've ever made in my life. There's not one second ever, in the last seven years where I have regretted it where I've been like, what would it be like to still have titties? No, like the weight that was literally taken off of my chest and like the anxiety that like was removed from the titty being removed andI'm just so happy that I followed my umlike intuition and knowing when was the right time for me because I did plan my surgery a year before I was going to have it but then I cancelled because I felt like I wasn't ready but I'll give you that story in more detail later on. Anyways, if you have any questions about surgery, anything like that, please let me know. I highly recommend my surgeon Dr. Geremony. He is like super nice person and still does surgery and really focuses primarily on top surgery and You know, removing the titty, so give you a little see it's flat. It's great and it does kind of suck when you gain a little bit of weight because yeah, now I kind of got this and if you do this kind of like got some cleavage, but whatever man, my, my I'm still happy. I'm fine. I'm fine. Alright, thank you so much for joining me and I'll see you later. Oh, by the way, my 10 years on T is in three weeks. WHAT? All right, I Love you. Bye. Okay just quickly before I go, sorry, I was just like taking some shots of my chest. I can do like comparisons and stuff like that in the future. And I'm just like, not trying to rub in anyone's face that's not able to get top surgery right now or anything like that. I'm sorry, I feel really bad. I just want to express how I feel about my chest. And even while I was doing my comparison saw shots like even if I'm going to like look at that man, every day, every day, I'm still in awe. It's like I fall in love with my chest more and more every day. Anyways. Love you.