10 Best Disney Villainshttps://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UHqxHkmRypcCouncil of Geeks (aka Vera Wylde):Hey there everybody, let's have a little fun with this one. This is a video that I've had the idea of for a very long time and it was a while before I actually sat down to just write the dang thing out. I had to come out. Oh I didn't have to I decided to come up with my list of the Top ten bestDisney villains.Little bit about uh my parameters here I did decide to go only with animated. Now Disney has made plenty of live action movies over the years, some of which even have phenomenal villains Judge Doom from Roger Rabbit comes to mind although partially animated, but anyways, I opted not to do this because generally when you say Disney villain or really even Disney movie, generally people mean, the animated canon, and I am sticking to Disney animated. I am not counting Pixar even though Disney now owns them, I still deal with them as a separate thing. So let's talk about my own personal top ten that I'm sure everyone will agree with.Right.Number ten Cruella de Vil.Let's start this list off with a bit of class?Question mark? I just love the pomposity of Cruella De Ville. I love the self obsession. I love the complete lack of self awareness. She's just absolute over the top but in a way more scaled down way Over the top villains are pretty common in Disney. But what I like about Cruella is, she's over the top but not Trying to conquer the world not trying to take over a kingdom not, you know, doing these grand schemes, she just wants a coat.With spots. It's just so small and she's willing to be so awful in order to get it like the song [soundtrack from movie]Cruella Deville, Cruella Deville.[Council of Geeks]:I know she doesn't sing it, but I can't think of her without thinking of the song, so that helped.Number nine,King Candy, a k a turbo from Wreck It Ralph.So this is the one that is the most recent that is going to make this list because it's been noted by lots of people with much bigger platforms than me that Disney recently has kind of de emphasized the villains and has favored what one would consider Be the surprise villain. And that's not to say that that sort of thing doesn't work. I would actually argue that that has worked very well in some cases, but, it does mean that the villain doesn't get the chance to be big, operatic, fun and memorable the way they are in earlier Disney films.I do feel like King Candy is the exception to this because he is a memorable character even prior to the reveal of him being the villain. If you were going to criticize villains specifically, a lot of the surprise villains in recent years have been fairly unremarkable characters until you found out that they were villains. And I also like that it's not a *snap* turn on a dime. You learn as it goes along, something's up with this guy, something's off, the pieces start to fall together and then the final reveal of him as being turbo is someone who has taken over a game who has basically done what Ralph tried to do but did it with absolutely nono of the  moral quandaries that Ralph has developed as he's gone along. And then the final image of him as this big monster, I think, which is another gamble, replacing your villain with effectively a monster more often than not doesn't work because you're invested in the humanoid version of them. But in this case, it works cause it’s the exact same face the vocal delivery’s the same.Oh, that works.Eight,Hades.This easily is the most fun villain on the list. I mean, look,lots of these villainss are fun.And that's sort of the mark of a good Disney villain is they usually are fun but Hades. I mean, he makes the movie. He is easily the best thing about it, and the performance of the snappy, almost sort of used car salesman approach of just being[Hades from Hercules]:name is Hades, the lord of the dead, hi how you doing[Council of Geeks]:Quick and bantering, cutting deals as opposed to being all booming you know I am Hades Hey, I'm Hades, how you doing? It's just great. It undercuts what you would expect from a villain who is the Lord of the underworld, and it just plays so well. It is the antithesis of what you would have expected but yet still works villainous. It's just so fun. Number seven, Judge frolloI have to slightly confess something I have not actually seen the Hunchback of Notre Dom from start to finish yet. I have however, I because I've heard such good things about Frollo isolated his scenes and took a look at him basically in a vacuum. And I see why the guy’s highly praised as a villain.He is arguably one of the most monstrous villains in the Disney canon, but he thinks he's righteous. He thinks he's the good guy. And that's actually something thing that I don't think any of the other villains on this list have. And it's actually very uncommon in Disney.By and large as I mentioned with these villainous turns part of what makes them fun is they know they're the bad guy. And they just revel in it. And I do love that but there's something to be said, For someone so misguided as to be so monstrous as frollo is and to think that they're the good person in this scenario. It's chilling his song especially[Judge Frollo]:like Fire, hell fire. This fire in [council of geeks]:whoNot messing around.Number six,One that I think a lot of people probably would have put closer to the top than me but like understand, coming up with my top ten was not super hard ordering it was.So Give me some leeway on that.Maleficent the queen of evil.Definitely knows she's bad rebels in it and she is just owning it top to bottom from the look to the way she delivers her lines to that laugh and again an instance of becoming a monster at the end of this case the dragon that does actually work. I think part of it being that the dragon is so stylized in a way that you feel like you still feel her presence within it. Even though it doesn't look like her anymore plus, you know I don't think they got would have gotten away with throwing the sword through a woman's chest but dragon oh, yeah. Oh yeah. Take her down how completely she embodies the evil. Oh, it's good. And look, the live action Maleficent. Angelina Jolie did good work. I didn't see the sequel. I don't think anybody did. But this is still my preferred version Maleficent.number five,Professor rhadigan from the Great Mouse Detective. I like his design.I like how intimidating he is, and especially when he rears back because often because he's talking to characters who are so much shorter than he is, he's frequently sort of hunched over them, but every now and then he sort of rolls his shoulder by you realize how much bigger he is than everybody else in that film. But then what really puts it over the top is the vocal performance.[Professor Rhadigan]:*unintelligible*Oh I love it when I’m nasty[Council of Geeks]:Vincent Price,He went on record as saying this was one of his favorite roles he ever got to play and you can hear it in every line delivery, because Vincent Price reveled so much in playing this part, it means that Ratigan revels so much in invading out witting, and just taking on the hero. He has a personal thing where he just wants to mess with Basil. And whenever something doesn't go his way always cracks and you can see it this harsh turn. And again, still really fun, but also taking advantage of his visual design, the confrontation at the end, and again, this is something that could have really gone South because so far it's been a battle of wits and it's going to end with a fight. That shouldn't work. Part of what he does, is he's kind of terrifying at the very end, between the claws and like his clothes get ready and the look in his eyes. OOOh, Ah, it's a great turn, It's a great climax to a great character. Number Four.Lady TremaineA K A the evil stepmother from Cinderella. No big plans, no grand scheme, not even really a clear discernible goal that is in opposition to the heroes.Hust doesn't want to see the hero succeed. She is just so focused on herself and her own daughters and has no interest Cinderella having anything but that's not even necessarily like a goal in her life.I don't think she makes it a mission to make Cinderella's life miserable. But she does still do it. And she does enjoy doing it. And a lot of this one is actually just in the I'm gonna say performance but I bUT I mean visually The body language, the look the eyes the way they narrow. She figures things out, puts pieces together, decides on the next cruel thing she's going to put Cinderella through. In many ways she is the most believable Villain,Because while I've never had a parental figure, like Lady Tremaine, I have met people like her. And they're terrifying. So is she.Before we get to the top three, I do want to do a quick rundown of honorable mentions some great characters that for one reason or another didn't quite make the list, But I still want to shout out all the same. We have. Shere Khan was so smooth with his voice and just so suave and almost sort of endearing until suddenly he's really not.Dr. facilie. That voice and I love the scheming nature of him and that ultimately, he's Just trying to save his own neck at the behest of these other forces that he's cut deals with Taka. I love Taka  I love to death the final reveals about Taka. However the reason to cut and make the list is because ultimately it's more of an obstacle than it is a real proper villain long john silver. I really wanted to put him on here because I think Treasure Planet is so underrated as a film, and I think this is a terrific rendition of long john silver but like so many versions of Treasure Island it's debatable how much of an outright villain he is.Ismashe almost made this list.She was really close.Much like Hades, she is just a lot of fun with a terrific performance from Ertha Kitt. And basically it came down to her and Cruella for that number ten spot and Cruella just edged her out but Oh, it was close. McLeach from Rescuers Down Under.Another movie that I think is just flat out underrated as a film, and George Scott gives such a good performance as this character. But ultimately, as much as I liked him, I couldn't in good conscience put him above the ones who actually made the listmerlokI have a lot of fun memories about this villain from the DuckTales movie, but I do have to admit that upon rewatch, he is played for laughs more often than I remember. I think a lot of ways he's highewr my mind because of what he transforms into towards the end of the movie, which is awesome.The Headless Horseman,Again, kind of debatable just because of the nature of the horsemen and sort of how you feel about the story overall, but I'll tell you, there's just something for me so it is one of my favorite laughs and film of all time, just rearing back holding the jack o lantern and the sword and laughing.It’s so good. And last honorable mention goes to chernabog. Who honestly could have made the list the only reason he doesn't is because even if you're going to make an argument that he is the villain, it's only in one segment of a film that does not have a coherent storyline,.Because Fantasia just doesn't, as much as I love him and I love the Night on Bald Mountain segment, he's not actually a functional villain, for what that movie is. So let's get to our top three. Number three,[Scar]:Long live the king[Council of Geeks]:Scar from The Lion King. Again, a lot of it comes down to vocal performance. And you know, doubly so now that we've had the comparison with the um photorealistic remake, but Jeremy Irons just drips, personality and venom, the lines that he again can turn so quickly he can be sarcastic. He can be almost a little flamboyant and then he'll just go cold in the face and go [Scar]:kill him. [Council of Geeks]:It's chilling. It's really, really good. Number two.Gaston. I like gaston because again, he does not have this huge ambition of power, or revenge he's just entitled. He thinks because he is strong and handsome, the world is supposed to bend to His will. He is. I'm just gonna say it, he is toxic masculinity personified.And it is the perfect villain for a story about somebody as empathetic and Intellectual as Belle, and as someone whose entire journey is about coming to better understand thathe has to change and he has to better understand other people to care about the people as the beast.Gast on is the perfect counterpoint to all of that, because it's so much deeper than just the surface of Oh, the horrific beast looking thing is really a guy and the handsome looking guy is really monster. Yes, there is that but it goes so much deeper.Gaston thinks the world owes him what he wants. He has never questioned that. He never will question that even if he hadn't died. And he is a really terrific villain, especially for the story he’s put in.But he does not quite make it.My number one spot. It may be nostalgia, partially speaking here but I have to give my number one slot to Ursula, the sea witch. Ursula is everything that I asked for in a Disney villain. She has a terrific design has a boisterous and just flambuoyant, vocal performance. She has a terrific song. And she is driven and she is heartless and she enjoys twisting the knife. And she's also intimidating. I know she turns big and huge at the very end and that does work. But honestly for me, it's that shot. When she transforms from the human body, she's been masquerading as into the sea with.That, that is Ursula and that is what I want in a Disney villain and just mwah, oh you poor unfortunate souls, who had no idea what was coming for you. She's my favorite, but who is yours? Whatever it is drop something on down on the comments. Let's talk about it. Since this video doesn't have a sponsor, I want to highlight another creator, in this case, Princess weeks, who you might know from her collaborations with Lindsey Ellis for its lit for PBS, but I actually wanted to highlight her own personal channel, Melina pendulum where she makes her own amazing video essays. She did a really fantastic breakdown of Gone with the Wind a few weeks ago and I would highly recommend checking out her channel. A whole bunch of stuff to do as well. As usual like, Subscribe, share this around. I have a Patreon which is really important it is actually how I'm paying my bills at this point. So helps keep the lights on but you don't have to. End of the day. You're are the council and I just run the meetings and until next time, this council is adjourned.